CHAPTER I
THE HOUSE IN THE HOLLOW

The house in the hollow was “a mile from anywhere”--so Maywood peoplesaid. It was situated in a grassy little dale, looking as if it hadnever been built like other houses but had grown up there like a big,brown mushroom. It was reached by a long, green lane and almost hiddenfrom view by an encircling growth of young birches. No other housecould be seen from it although the village was just over the hill.Ellen Greene said it was the lonesomest place in the world and vowedthat she wouldn’t stay there a day if it wasn’t that she pitied thechild.
Emily didn’t know she was being pitied and didn’t know whatlonesomeness meant. She had plenty of company. There was Father--andMike--and Saucy Sal. The Wind Woman was always around; and there werethe trees--Adam-and-Eve, and the Rooster Pine, and all the friendlylady-birches.
And there was “the flash,” too. She never knew when it might come, andthe possibility of it kept her a-thrill and expectant.
Emily had slipped away in the chilly twilight for a walk. Sheremembered that walk very vividly all her life--perhaps because of acertain eerie beauty that was in it--perhaps because “the flash” camefor the first time in weeks--more likely because of what happenedafter she came back from it.
It had been a dull, cold day in early May, threatening to rain butnever raining. Father had lain on the sitting-room lounge all day. Hehad coughed a good deal and he had not talked much to Emily, which wasa very unusual thing for him. Most of the time he lay with his handsclasped under his head and his large, sunken, dark-blue eyes fixeddreamily and unseeingly on the cloudy sky that was visible between theboughs of the two big spruces in the front yard--Adam-and-Eve, theyalways called those spruces, because of a whimsical resemblance Emilyhad traced between their position, with reference to a small apple-treebetween them, and that of Adam and Eve and the Tree of Knowledge inan old-fashioned picture in one of Ellen Greene’s books. The Tree ofKnowledge looked exactly like the squat little apple-tree, and Adam andEve stood up on either side as stiffly and rigidly as did the spruces.
Emily wondered what Father was thinking of, but she never bothered himwith questions when his cough was bad. She only wished she had somebodyto talk to. Ellen Greene wouldn’t talk that day either. She did nothingbut grunt, and grunts meant that Ellen was disturbed about something.She had grunted last night after the doctor had whispered to her in thekitchen, and she had grunted when she gave Emily a bedtime snack ofbread and molasses. Emily did not like bread and molasses, but she ateit because she did not want to hurt Ellen’s feelings. It was not oftenthat Ellen allowed her anything to eat before going to bed, and whenshe did it meant that for some reason or other she wanted to confer aspecial favor.
Emily expected the grunting attack would wear off over night, as itgenerally did; but it had not, so no company was to be found in Ellen.Not that there was a great deal to be found at any time. Douglas Starrhad once, in a fit of exasperation, told Emily that “Ellen Greene was afat, lazy old thing of no importance,” and Emily, whenever she lookedat Ellen after that, thought the description fitted her to a hair.
So Emily had curled herself up in the ragged, comfortable oldwing-chair and read _The Pilgrim’s Progress_ all the afternoon. Emilyloved _The Pilgrim’s Progress_. Many a time had she walked the straightand narrow path with _Christian_ and _Christiana_--although she neverliked _Christiana’s_ adventures half as well as _Christian’s_. For onething, there was always such a crowd with _Christiana_. She had nothalf the fascination of that solitary, intrepid figure who faced allalone the shadows of the Dark Valley and the encounter with Apollyon.Darkness and hobgoblins were nothing when you had plenty of company.But to be _alone_--ah, Emily shivered with the delicious horror of it!
When Ellen announced that supper was ready Douglas Starr told Emily togo out to it.
“I don’t want anything tonight. I’ll just lie here and rest. And whenyou come in again we’ll have a real talk, Elfkin.”
He smiled up at her his old, beautiful smile, with the love behindit, that Emily always found so sweet. She ate her supper quitehappily--though it wasn’t a good supper. The bread was soggy and heregg was underdone, but for a wonder she was allowed to have both SaucySal and Mike sitting, one on each side of her, and Ellen only gruntedwhen Emily fed them wee bits of bread and butter.
Mike had such a cute way of sitting up on his haunches and catching thebits in his paws, and Saucy Sal had _her_ trick of touching Emily’sankle with an almost human touch when her turn was too long in coming.Emily loved them both, but Mike was her favourite. He was a handsome,dark-grey cat with huge owl-like eyes, and he was so soft and fat andfluffy. Sal was always thin; no amount of feeding put any flesh on herbones. Emily liked her, but never cared to cuddle or stroke her becauseof her thinness. Yet there was a sort of weird beauty about her thatappealed to Emily. She was grey-and-white--very white and very sleek,with a long, pointed face, very long ears and very green eyes. She wasa redoubtable fighter, and strange cats were vanquished in one round.The fearless little spitfire would even attack dogs and rout themutterly.
Emily loved her pussies. She had brought them up herself, as sheproudly said. They had been given to her when they were kittens by herSunday School teacher.
“A _living_ present is so nice,” she told Ellen, “because it keeps ongetting nicer all the time.”
But she worried considerably because Saucy Sal didn’t have kittens.
“I don’t know why she doesn’t,” she complained to Ellen Greene. “Mostcats seem to have more kittens than they know what to do with.”
After supper Emily went in and found that her father had fallenasleep. She was very glad of this; she knew he had not slept muchfor two nights; but she was a little disappointed that they were notgoing to have that “real talk.” “Real” talks with Father were alwayssuch delightful things. But next best would be a walk--a lovelyall-by-your-lonesome walk through the grey evening of the young spring.It was so long since she had had a walk.
“You put on your hood and mind you scoot back if it starts to rain,”warned Ellen. “_You_ can’t monkey with colds the way some kids can.”
“Why can’t I?” Emily asked rather indignantly. Why must _she_ bedebarred from “monkeying with colds” if other children could? It wasn’tfair.
But Ellen only grunted. Emily muttered under her breath for her ownsatisfaction, “You are a fat old thing of no importance!” and slippedupstairs to get her hood--rather reluctantly, for she loved to runbareheaded. She put the faded blue hood on over her long, heavy braidof glossy, jet-black hair, and smiled chummily at her reflection in thelittle greenish glass. The smile began at the corners of her lips andspread over her face in a slow, subtle, very wonderful way, as DouglasStarr often thought. It was her dead mother’s smile--the thing that hadcaught and held him long ago when he had first seen Juliet Murray. Itseemed to be Emily’s only physical inheritance from her mother. In allelse, he thought, she was like the Starrs--in her large, purplish-greyeyes with their very long lashes and black brows, in her high, whiteforehead--too high for beauty--in the delicate modeling of her paleoval face and sensitive mouth, in the little ears that were pointedjust a wee bit to show that she was kin to tribes of elfland.
“I’m going for a walk with the Wind Woman, dear,” said Emily. “I wishI could take you too. Do you _ever_ get out of that room, I wonder.The Wind Woman is going to be out in the fields to-night. She is talland misty, with thin, grey, silky clothes blowing all about her--andwings like a bat’s--only you can see through them--and shining eyeslike stars looking through her long, loose hair. She can fly--butto-night she will walk with me all over the fields. She’s a _great_friend of mine--the Wind Woman is. I’ve known her ever since I was six.We’re _old, old_ friends--but not quite so old as you and I, littleEmily-in-the-glass. We’ve been friends _always_, haven’t we?”
With a blown kiss to little Emily-in-the-glass, Emily-out-of-the-glasswas off.
The Wind Woman was waiting for her outside--ruffling the little spearsof striped grass that were sticking up stiffly in the bed under thesitting-room window--tossing the big boughs of Adam-and-Eve--whisperingamong the misty green branches of the birches--teasing the “RoosterPine” behind the house--it really did look like an enormous,ridiculous rooster, with a huge, bunchy tail and a head thrown back tocrow.
It was so long since Emily had been out for a walk that she was halfcrazy with the joy of it. The winter had been so stormy and the snowso deep that she was never allowed out; April had been a month of rainand wind; so on this May evening she felt like a released prisoner.Where should she go? Down the brook--or over the fields to the sprucebarrens? Emily chose the latter.
She loved the spruce barrens, away at the further end of the long,sloping pasture. That was a place where magic was made. She came morefully into her fairy birthright there than in any other place. Nobodywho saw Emily skimming over the bare field would have envied her.She was little and pale and poorly clad; sometimes she shivered inher thin jacket; yet a queen might have gladly given a crown for hervisions--her dreams of wonder. The brown, frosted grasses under herfeet were velvet piles. The old, mossy, gnarled half-dead spruce-tree,under which she paused for a moment to look up into the sky, was amarble column in a palace of the gods; the far dusky hills were theramparts of a city of wonder. And for companions she had all thefairies of the countryside--for she could believe in them here--thefairies of the white clover and satin catkins, the little green folk ofthe grass, the elves of the young fir-trees, sprites of wind and wildfern and thistledown. Anything might happen there--everything mightcome true.
And the barrens were such a splendid place in which to play hide andseek with the Wind Woman. She was so very _real_ there; if you couldjust spring quickly enough around a little cluster of spruces--onlyyou never could--you would _see_ her as well as feel her and hear her.There she was--that _was_ the sweep of her grey cloak--no, she waslaughing up in the very top of the taller trees--and the chase was onagain--till, all at once, it seemed as if the Wind Woman were gone--andthe evening was bathed in a wonderful silence--and there was a suddenrift in the curdled clouds westward, and a lovely, pale, pinky-greenlake of sky with a new moon in it.
Emily stood and looked at it with clasped hands and her little blackhead upturned. She must go home and write down a description of it inthe yellow account book, where the last thing written had been, “Mike’sBiograffy.” It would hurt her with its beauty until she wrote it down.Then she would read it to Father. She must not forget how the tips ofthe trees on the hill came out like fine black lace across the edge ofthe pinky-green sky.
And then, for one glorious, supreme moment, came “the flash.”
Emily called it that, although she felt that the name didn’t exactlydescribe it. It couldn’t be described--not even to Father, who alwaysseemed a little puzzled by it. Emily never spoke of it to any one else.
It had always seemed to Emily, ever since she could remember, that shewas very, very near to a world of wonderful beauty. Between it andherself hung only a thin curtain; she could never draw the curtainaside--but sometimes, just for a moment, a wind fluttered it and thenit was as if she caught a glimpse of the enchanting realm beyond--onlya glimpse--and heard a note of unearthly music.
This moment came rarely--went swiftly, leaving her breathless with theinexpressible delight of it. She could never recall it--never summonit--never pretend it; but the wonder of it stayed with her for days.It never came twice with the same thing. To-night the dark boughsagainst that far-off sky had given it. It had come with a high, wildnote of wind in the night, with a shadow wave over a ripe field, with agreybird lighting on her window-sill in a storm, with the singing of“Holy, holy, holy” in church, with a glimpse of the kitchen fire whenshe had come home on a dark autumn night, with the spirit-like blue ofice palms on a twilit pane, with a felicitous new word when she waswriting down a “description” of something. And always when the flashcame to her Emily felt that life was a wonderful, mysterious thing ofpersistent beauty.
She scuttled back to the house in the hollow, through the gatheringtwilight, all agog to get home and write down her “description” beforethe memory picture of what she had seen grew a little blurred. She knewjust how she would begin it--the sentence seemed to shape itself in hermind: “The hill called to me and something in me called back to it.”
She found Ellen Greene waiting for her on the sunken front-doorstep.Emily was so full of happiness that she loved everything at thatmoment, even fat things of no importance. She flung her arms aroundEllen’s knees and hugged them. Ellen looked down gloomily into the raptlittle face, where excitement had kindled a faint wild-rose flush, andsaid, with a ponderous sigh:
“Do you know that your pa has only a week or two more to live?”



CHAPTER II
A WATCH IN THE NIGHT

Emily stood quite still and looked up at Ellen’s broad, red face--asstill as if she had been suddenly turned to stone. She felt as if shehad. She was as stunned as if Ellen had struck her a physical blow. Thecolour faded out of her little face and her pupils dilated until theyswallowed up the irides and turned her eyes into pools of blackness.The effect was so startling that even Ellen Greene felt uncomfortable.
“I’m telling you this because I think it’s high time you was told,”she said. “I’ve been at your pa for months to tell you, but he’s keptputting it off and off. I says to him, says I, ‘You know how hard shetakes things, and if you drop off suddent some day it’ll most killher if she hasn’t been prepared. It’s your duty to prepare her,’ andhe says, says he, ‘There’s time enough yet, Ellen.’ But he’s neversaid a word, and when the doctor told me last night that the end mightcome any time now, I just made up my mind that _I_’d do what was rightand drop a hint to prepare you. Laws-a-massy, child, don’t look likethat! You’ll be looked after. Your ma’s people will see to that--onaccount of the Murray pride, if for no other reason. They won’t letone of their own blood starve or go to strangers--even if they havealways hated your pa like p’isen. You’ll have a good home--better’nyou’ve ever had here. You needn’t worry a mite. As for your pa, youought to be thankful to see him at rest. He’s been dying by inchesfor the last five years. He’s kept it from you, but he’s been a greatsufferer. Folks say his heart broke when your ma died--it came on himso suddent-like--she was only sick three days. That’s why I want you toknow what’s coming, so’s you won’t be all upset when it happens. Formercy’s sake, Emily Byrd Starr, don’t stand there staring like that!You give me the creeps! You ain’t the first child that’s been left anorphan and you won’t be the last. Try and be sensible. And don’t gopestering your pa about what I’ve told you, mind that. Come you in now,out of the damp, and I’ll give you a cooky ’fore you go to bed.”
Ellen stepped down as if to take the child’s hand. The power of motionreturned to Emily--she must scream if Ellen even touched her _now_.With one sudden, sharp, bitter little cry she avoided Ellen’s hand,darted through the door and fled up the dark staircase.
Ellen shook her head and waddled back to her kitchen.
“Anyhow, I’ve done _my_ duty,” she reflected. “He’d have just keptsaying ‘time enough’ and put it off till he was dead and then there’dhave been no managing her. She’ll have time now to get used to it,and she’ll brace up in a day or two. I will say for her she’s gotspunk--which is lucky, from all I’ve heard of the Murrays. They won’tfind it easy to overcrow _her_. She’s got a streak of their pride, too,and that’ll help her through. I wish I dared send some of the Murraysword that he’s dying, but I don’t dast go that far. There’s no tellingwhat _he_’d do. Well, I’ve stuck on here to the last and I ain’t sorry.Not many women would ’a’ done it, living as they do here. It’s a shamethe way that child’s been brought up--never even sent to school. Well,I’ve told him often enough what I’ve thought of it--it ain’t on _my_conscience, that’s one comfort. Here, you Sal-thing, you git out!Where’s Mike, too?”
Ellen could not find Mike for the very good reason that he was upstairswith Emily, held tightly in her arms, as she sat in the darkness onher little cot bed. Amid her agony and desolation there was a certaincomfort in the feel of his soft fur and round velvety head.
Emily was not crying; she stared straight into the darkness, tryingto face the awful thing Ellen had told her. She did not doubtit--something told her it was true. Why couldn’t she die, too? Shecouldn’t go on living without Father.
“If I was God I wouldn’t let things like this happen,” she said.
She felt it was very wicked of her to say such a thing--Ellen had toldher once that it was the wickedest thing any one could do to find faultwith God. But she didn’t care. Perhaps if she were wicked enough Godwould strike her dead and then she and Father could keep on beingtogether.
But nothing happened--only Mike got tired of being held so tightlyand squirmed away. She was all alone now, with this terrible burningpain that seemed all over her and yet was not of the body. She couldnever get rid of it. She couldn’t help it by writing about it in theold yellow account book. She had written there about her Sunday Schoolteacher going away, and of being hungry when she went to bed, and Ellentelling her she must be half crazy to talk of Wind Women and flashes;and after she had written down all about them these things hadn’t hurther any more. But this couldn’t be written about. She could not evengo to Father for comfort, as she had gone when she burned her hand sobadly, picking up the red-hot poker by mistake. Father had held her inhis arms all that night and told her stories and helped her to bear thepain. But Father, so Ellen had said, was going to die in a week or two.Emily felt as if Ellen had told her this years and years ago. It surelycouldn’t be less than an hour since she had been playing with the WindWoman in the barrens and looking at the new moon in the pinky-green sky.
“The flash will never come again--it can’t,” she thought.
But Emily had inherited certain things from her fine old ancestors--thepower to fight--to suffer--to pity--to love very deeply--to rejoice--toendure. These things were all in her and looked out at you through herpurplish-grey eyes. Her heritage of endurance came to her aid now andbore her up. She must not let Father know what Ellen had told her--itmight hurt him. She must keep it all to herself and _love_ Father, oh,so much, in the little while she could yet have him.
She heard him cough in the room below: she must be in bed when he cameup; she undressed as swiftly as her cold fingers permitted and creptinto the little cot bed which stood across the open window. The voicesof the gentle spring night called to her all unheeded--unheard the WindWoman whistled by the eaves. For the fairies dwell only in the kingdomof Happiness; having no souls they cannot enter the kingdom of Sorrow.
She lay there cold and tearless and motionless when her father cameinto the room. How very slowly he walked--how very slowly he took offhis clothes. How was it she had never noticed these things before? Buthe was not coughing at all. Oh, what if Ellen were mistaken?--whatif--a wild hope shot through her aching heart. She gave a little gasp.
Douglas Starr came over to her bed. She felt his dear nearness ashe sat down on the chair beside her, in his old red dressing-gown.Oh, how she loved him! There was no other Father like him in all theworld--there never could have been--so tender, so understanding, sowonderful! They had always been such chums--they had loved each otherso much--it couldn’t be that they were to be separated.
“Winkums, are you asleep?”
“No,” whispered Emily.
“Are you sleepy, small dear?”
“No--no--not sleepy.”
Douglas Starr took her hand and held it tightly.
“Then we’ll have our talk, honey. I can’t sleep either. I want to tellyou something.”
“Oh--I know it--I know it!” burst out Emily. “Oh, Father, I know it!Ellen told me.”
Douglas Starr was silent for a moment. Then he said under his breath,“The old fool--the _fat_ old fool!”--as if Ellen’s fatness was anadded aggravation of her folly. Again, for the last time, Emily hoped.Perhaps it was all a dreadful mistake--just some more of Ellen’s fatfoolishness.
“It--it isn’t true, is it, Father?” she whispered.
“Emily, child,” said her father, “I can’t lift you up--I haven’t thestrength--but climb up and sit on my knee--in the old way.”
Emily slipped out of bed and got on her father’s knee. He wrapped theold dressing-gown about her and held her close with his face againsthers.
“Dear little child--little beloved Emilykin, it is quite true,” hesaid, “I meant to tell you myself to-night. And now that old absurdityof an Ellen has told you--brutally, I suppose--and hurt you dreadfully.She has the brain of a hen and the sensibility of a cow. May jackalssit on her grandmother’s grave! _I_ wouldn’t have hurt you, dear.”
Emily fought something down that wanted to choke her.
“Father, I can’t--I can’t bear it.”
“Yes, you can and will. You will live because there is something foryou to do, I think. You have my gift--along with something I neverhad. You will succeed where I failed, Emily. I haven’t been able to domuch for you, sweetheart, but I’ve done what I could. I’ve taught yousomething, I think--in spite of Ellen Greene. Emily, do you rememberyour mother?”
“Just a little--here and there--like lovely bits of dreams.”
“You were only four when she died. I’ve never talked much to you abouther--I couldn’t. But I’m going to tell you all about her to-night. Itdoesn’t hurt me to talk of her now--I’ll see her so soon again. Youdon’t look like her, Emily--only when you smile. For the rest, you’relike your namesake, my mother. When you were born I wanted to call youJuliet, too. But your mother wouldn’t. She said if we called you Julietthen I’d soon take to calling her ‘Mother’ to distinguish between you,and she couldn’t endure _that_. She said her Aunt Nancy had once saidto her, ‘The first time your husband calls you “Mother” the romance oflife is over.’ So we called you after my mother--_her_ maiden namewas Emily Byrd. Your mother thought Emily the prettiest name in theworld,--it was quaint and arch and delightful, she said. Emily, yourmother was the sweetest woman ever made.”
His voice trembled and Emily snuggled close.
“I met her twelve years ago, when I was sub-editor of the _Enterprise_up in Charlottetown and she was in her last year at Queen’s. She wastall and fair and blue-eyed. She looked a little like your Aunt Laura,but Laura was never so pretty. Their eyes were very much alike--andtheir voices. She was one of the Murrays from Blair Water. I’ve nevertold you much about your mother’s people, Emily. They live up on theold north shore at Blair Water on New Moon Farm--always have livedthere since the first Murray came out from the Old Country in 1790. Theship he came on was called the _New Moon_ and he named his farm afterher.”
“It’s a nice name--the new moon is such a pretty thing,” said Emily,interested for a moment.
“There’s been a Murray ever since at New Moon Farm. They’re a proudfamily--the Murray pride is a byword along the north shore, Emily.Well, they had some things to be proud of, that cannot be denied--butthey carried it too far. Folks call them ‘the chosen people’ up there.
“They increased and multiplied and scattered all over, but the oldstock at New Moon Farm is pretty well run out. Only your Aunts,Elizabeth and Laura, live there now, and their cousin, Jimmy Murray.They never married--could not find any one good enough for a Murray, soit used to be said. Your Uncle Oliver and your Uncle Wallace live inSummerside, your Aunt Ruth in Shrewsbury and your Great-Aunt Nancy atPriest Pond.”
“Priest Pond--that’s an _interesting_ name--not a pretty name like NewMoon and Blair Water--but interesting,” said Emily. Feeling Father’sarm around her the horror had momentarily shrunk away. For just alittle while she ceased to believe it.
Douglas Starr tucked the dressing-gown a little more closely aroundher, kissed her black head, and went on.
“Elizabeth and Laura and Wallace and Oliver and Ruth were old ArchibaldMurray’s children. His first wife was their mother. When he was sixtyhe married again--a young slip of a girl--who died when your motherwas born. Juliet was twenty years younger than her half-family, as sheused to call them. She was very pretty and charming and they all lovedand petted her and were very proud of her. When she fell in love withme, a poor young journalist, with nothing in the world but his pen andhis ambition, there was a family earthquake. The Murray pride couldn’ttolerate the thing at all. I won’t rake it all up--but things were saidI could never forget or forgive. Your mother married me, Emily--and theNew Moon people would have nothing more to do with her. Can you believethat, in spite of it, she was never sorry for marrying me?”
Emily put up her hand and patted her father’s hollow cheek.
“_Of course_ she wouldn’t be sorry. _Of course_ she’d rather have youthan all the Murrays of any kind of a moon.”
Father laughed a little--and there was just a note of triumph in hislaugh.
“Yes, she seemed to feel that way about it. And we were so happy--oh,Emilykin, there never were two happier people in the world. You werethe child of that happiness. I remember the night you were born inthe little house in Charlottetown. It was in May and a west wind wasblowing silvery clouds over the moon. There was a star or two hereand there. In our tiny garden--everything we had was small except ourlove and our happiness--it was dark and blossomy. I walked up anddown the path between the beds of violets your mother had planted--andprayed. The pale east was just beginning to glow like a rosy pearlwhen some one came and told me I had a little daughter. I wentin--and your mother, white and weak, smiled just that dear, slow,wonderful smile I loved, and said, ‘We’ve--got--the only--baby--of anyimportance--in--the world, dear. Just--think--of that!’”
“I wish people could remember from the very moment they’re born,” saidEmily. “It would be so very interesting.”
“I dare say we’d have a lot of uncomfortable memories,” said herfather, laughing a little. “It can’t be very pleasant getting used toliving--no pleasanter than getting used to stopping it. But you didn’tseem to find it hard, for you were a good wee kidlet, Emily. We hadfour more happy years and then--do you remember the time your motherdied, Emily?”
“I remember the funeral, Father--I remember it _distinctly_. You werestanding in the middle of a room, holding me in your arms, and Motherwas lying just before us in a long, black box. And you were crying--andI couldn’t think why--and I wondered why Mother looked so white andwouldn’t open her eyes. And I leaned down and touched her cheek--andoh, it was so cold. It made me shiver. And somebody in the room said,‘Poor little thing!’ and I was frightened and put my face down on yourshoulder.”
“Yes, I recall that. Your mother died very suddenly. I don’t thinkwe’ll talk about it. The Murrays all came to her funeral. The Murrayshave certain traditions and they live up to them very strictly. Oneof them is that nothing but candles shall be burned for light at NewMoon--and another is that no quarrel must be carried past the grave.They came when she was dead--they would have come when she was ill ifthey had known, I will say that much for them. And they behaved verywell--oh, very well indeed. They were not the Murrays of New Moon fornothing. Your Aunt Elizabeth wore her best black satin dress to thefuneral. For any funeral but a Murray’s the second best one wouldhave done; and they made no serious objection when I said your motherwould be buried in the Starr plot in Charlottetown cemetery. Theywould have liked to take her back to the old Murray burying-ground inBlair Water--they had their own private burying-ground, you know--noindiscriminate graveyard for _them_. But your Uncle Wallace handsomelyadmitted that a woman should belong to her husband’s family in death asin life. And then they offered to take you and bring you up--to ‘giveyou your mother’s place.’ I refused to let them have you--then. Did Ido right, Emily?”
“Yes--yes--yes!” whispered Emily, with a hug at every “yes.”
“I told Oliver Murray--it was he who spoke to me about you--that aslong as I lived I would not be parted from my child. He said, ‘If youever change your mind, let us know.’ But I did not change my mind--noteven three years later when my doctor told me I must give up work.‘If you don’t, I give you a year,’ he said, ‘if you do, and liveout-of-doors all you can, I give you three--or possibly four.’ He was agood prophet. I came out here and we’ve had four lovely years together,haven’t we, small dear one?”
“Yes--oh, yes!”
“Those years and what I’ve taught you in them are the only legacy Ican leave you, Emily. We’ve been living on a tiny income I have froma life interest that was left me in an old uncle’s estate--an unclewho died before I was married. The estate goes to a charity now, andthis little house is only a rented one. From a worldly point of viewI’ve certainly been a failure. But your mother’s people will care foryou--I know that. The Murray pride will guarantee so much, if nothingelse. And they can’t help loving you. Perhaps I should have sent forthem before--perhaps I ought to do it yet. But I have pride of a kind,too--the Starrs are not entirely traditionless--and the Murrays saidsome very bitter things to me when I married your mother. Will I sendto New Moon and ask them to come, Emily?”
“No!” said Emily, almost fiercely.
She did not want any one to come between her and Father for the fewprecious days left. The thought was horrible to her. It would be badenough if they had to come--afterwards. But she would not mind anythingmuch--then.
“We’ll stay together to the very end, then, little Emily-child. Wewon’t be parted for a minute. And I want you to be brave. You mustn’tbe afraid of _anything_, Emily. Death isn’t terrible. The universe isfull of love--and spring comes everywhere--and in death you open andshut a door. There are beautiful things on the other side of the door.I’ll find your mother there--I’ve doubted many things, but I’ve neverdoubted _that_. Sometimes I’ve been afraid that she would get so farahead of me in the ways of eternity that I’d never catch up. But Ifeel _now_ that she’s waiting for me. And we’ll wait for you--we won’thurry--we’ll loiter and linger till you catch up with us.”
“I wish you--could take me right through the door with you,” whisperedEmily.
“After a little while you won’t wish that. You have yet to learn howkind time is. And life has something for you--I feel it. Go forward tomeet it fearlessly, dear. I know you don’t feel like that just now--butyou will remember my words by and by.”
“I feel just now,” said Emily, who couldn’t bear to hide anything fromFather, “that I don’t like God any more.”
Douglas Starr laughed--the laugh Emily liked best. It was such a dearlaugh--she caught her breath over the dearness of it. She felt hisarms tightening round her.
“Yes, you do, honey. You can’t help liking God. He is Love itself, youknow. You mustn’t mix Him up with Ellen Greene’s God, of course.”
Emily didn’t know exactly what Father meant. But all at once she foundthat she wasn’t afraid any longer--and the bitterness had gone out ofher sorrow, and the unbearable pain out of her heart. She felt as iflove was all about her and around her, breathed out from some great,invisible, hovering Tenderness. One couldn’t be afraid or bitterwhere love was--and love was everywhere. Father was going through thedoor--no, he was going to lift a curtain--she liked _that_ thoughtbetter, because a curtain wasn’t as hard and fast as a door--and hewould slip into that world of which the flash had given her glimpses.He would be there in its beauty--never very far away from her. Shecould bear anything if she could only feel that Father wasn’t very faraway from her--just beyond that wavering curtain.
Douglas Starr held her until she fell asleep; and then in spite of hisweakness he managed to lay her down in her little bed.
“She will love deeply--she will suffer terribly--she will have gloriousmoments to compensate--as I have had. As her mother’s people deal withher, so may God deal with them,” he murmured brokenly.



CHAPTER III
A HOP OUT OF KIN

Douglas Starr lived two weeks more. In after years when the painhad gone out of their recollection, Emily thought they were themost precious of her memories. They were beautiful weeks--beautifuland not sad. And one night, when he was lying on the couch in thesitting-room, with Emily beside him in the old wing-chair, he went pastthe curtain--went so quietly and easily that Emily did not know he wasgone until she suddenly felt the strange _stillness_ of the room--therewas no breathing in it but her own.
“Father--Father!” she cried. Then she screamed for Ellen.
Ellen Greene told the Murrays when they came that Emily had behavedreal well, when you took everything into account. To be sure, she hadcried all night and hadn’t slept a wink; none of the Maywood people whocame flocking kindly in to help could comfort her; but when morningcame her tears were all shed. She was pale and quiet and docile.
“That’s right, now,” said Ellen, “that’s what comes of being properlyprepared. Your pa was so mad at me for warning you that he wasn’trightly civil to me since--and him a dying man. But I don’t hold anygrudge against him. _I_ did my duty. Mrs. Hubbard’s fixing up a blackdress for you and it’ll be ready by supper time. Your ma’s people willbe here tonight, so they’ve telegraphed, and I’m bound they’ll find youlooking respectable. They’re well off and they’ll provide for you. Yourpa hasn’t left a cent but there ain’t any debts, I’ll say _that_ forhim. Have you been in to see the body?”
“Don’t call him _that_,” cried Emily, wincing. It was horrible to hearFather called _that_.
“Why not? If you ain’t the queerest child! He makes a better lookingcorpse than I thought he would, what with being so wasted and all. Hewas always a pretty man, though too thin.”
“Ellen Greene,” said Emily suddenly, “if you say any more of--thosethings--about Father, I will put the black curse on you!”
Ellen Greene stared.
“I don’t know what on earth you mean. But that’s no way to talk to me,after all I’ve done for you. You’d better not let the Murrays hear youtalking like that or they won’t want much to do with you. The blackcurse indeed! Well, here’s gratitude!”
Emily’s eyes smarted. She was just a lonely, solitary little creatureand she felt very friendless. But she was not at all remorseful forwhat she had said to Ellen and she was not going to pretend she was.
“Come you here and help me wash these dishes,” ordered Ellen. “It’lldo you good to have something to take up your mind and then you won’tbe after putting curses on people who have worked their fingers to thebone for you.”
Emily, with an eloquent glance at Ellen’s hands, went and got the dishtowel.
“Your hands are fat and pudgy,” she said. “The bones don’t show at all.”
“Never mind sassing back! It’s awful, with your poor pa dead in there.But if your Aunt Ruth takes you she’ll soon cure you of that.”
“Is Aunt Ruth going to take me?”
“I don’t know, but she ought to. She’s a widow with no chick or child,and well-to-do.”
“I don’t think I want Aunt Ruth to take me,” said Emily deliberately,after a moment’s reflection.
“Well, _you_ won’t have the choosing likely. You ought to be thankfulto get a home anywhere. Remember you’re not of much importance.”
“I am important to myself,” cried Emily proudly.
“It’ll be some chore to bring _you_ up,” muttered Ellen. “Your AuntRuth is the one to do it, in my opinion. _She_ won’t stand no nonsense.A fine woman she is and the neatest housekeeper on P. E. Island. Youcould eat off her floor.”
“I don’t want to eat off her floor. I don’t care if a floor is dirty aslong as the tablecloth is clean.”
“Well, her tablecloths are clean too, I reckon. She’s got an eleganthouse in Shrewsbury with bow windows and wooden lace all round theroof. It’s very stylish. It would be a fine home for you. She’d learnyou some sense and do you a world of good.”
“I don’t want to learn sense and be done a world of good to,” criedEmily with a quivering lip. “I--I want somebody to love me.”
“Well, you’ve got to behave yourself if you want people to like you.You’re not to blame so much--your pa has spoiled you. I told him sooften enough, but he just laughed. I hope he ain’t sorry for it now.The fact is, Emily Starr, you’re queer, and folks don’t care for queerchildren.”
“How am I queer?” demanded Emily.
“You talk queer--and you act queer--and at times you look queer.And you’re too old for your age--though that ain’t _your_ fault. Itcomes of never mixing with other children. I’ve always threaped atyour father to send you to school--learning at home ain’t the samething--but he wouldn’t listen to me, of course. I don’t say but whatyou are as far along in book learning as you need to be, but what youwant is to learn how to be like other children. In one way it wouldbe a good thing if your Uncle Oliver would take you, for he’s got abig family. But he’s not as well off as the rest, so it ain’t likelyhe will. Your Uncle Wallace might, seeing as he reckons himself thehead of the family. He’s only got a grown-up daughter. But his wife’sdelicate--or fancies she is.”
“I wish Aunt Laura would take me,” said Emily. She remembered thatFather had said Aunt Laura was something like her mother.
“Aunt Laura! _She_ won’t have no say in it--Elizabeth’s boss at NewMoon. Jimmy Murray runs the farm, but he ain’t quite all there, I’mtold--”
“What part of him isn’t there?” asked Emily curiously.
“Laws, it’s something about his mind, child. He’s a bit simple--someaccident or other when he was a youngster, I’ve heard. It addled hishead, kind of. Elizabeth was mixed up in it some way--I’ve never heardthe rights of it. I don’t reckon the New Moon people will want to bebothered with you. They’re awful set in their ways. You take my adviceand try to please your Aunt Ruth. Be polite--and well-behaved--mebbeshe’ll take a fancy to you. There, that’s all the dishes. You’d bettergo upstairs and be out of the way.”
“Can I take Mike and Saucy Sal?” asked Emily.
“No, you can’t.”
“They’d be company for me,” pleaded Emily.
“Company or no company, you can’t have them. They’re outside andthey’ll stay outside. I ain’t going to have them tracking all over thehouse. The floor’s been scrubbed.”
“Why didn’t you scrub the floor when Father was alive?” asked Emily.“He liked things to be clean. You hardly ever scrubbed it then. Why doyou do it now?”
“Listen to her! Was I to be always scrubbing floors with my rheumatiz?Get off upstairs and you’d better lie down awhile.”
“I’m going upstairs, but I’m not going to lie down,” said Emily. “I’vegot a lot of thinking to do.”
“There’s one thing I’d advise you to do,” said Ellen, determined tolose no chance of doing her duty, “and that is to kneel down and prayto God to make you a good and respectful and grateful child.”
Emily paused at the foot of the stairs and looked back.
“Father said I wasn’t to have anything to do with your God,” she saidgravely.
Ellen gasped foolishly, but could not think of any reply to thisheathenish statement. She appealed to the universe.
“Did any one ever hear the like!”
“I know what _your_ God is like,” said Emily. “I saw His picture inthat Adam-and-Eve book of yours. He has whiskers and wears a nightgown.I don’t like Him. But I like Father’s God.”
“And what is your father’s God like, if I may ask?” demanded Ellensarcastically.
Emily hadn’t any idea what Father’s God was like, but she wasdetermined not to be posed by Ellen.
“He is clear as the moon, fair as the sun, and terrible as an army withbanners,” she said triumphantly.
“Well, you’re bound to have the last word, but the Murrays will teachyou what’s what,” said Ellen, giving up the argument. “They’re strictPresbyterians and won’t hold by any of your father’s awful notions. Getoff upstairs.”
Emily went up to the south room, feeling very desolate.
“There isn’t anybody in the world who loves me now,” she said, asshe curled up on her bed by the window. But she was determined shewould not cry. The Murrays, who had hated her father, should not seeher crying. She felt that she detested them all--except perhaps AuntLaura. How very big and empty the world had suddenly become. Nothingwas interesting any more. It did not matter that the little squatapple-tree between Adam-and-Eve had become a thing of rose-and-snowbeauty--that the hills beyond the hollow were of green silk,purple-misted--that the daffodils were out in the garden--that thebirches were hung all over with golden tassels--that the Wind Woman wasblowing white young clouds across the sky. None of these things had anycharm or consolation for her now. In her inexperience she believed theynever would have again.
“But I promised Father I’d be brave,” she whispered, clenching herlittle fists, “and I will. And I _won’t_ let the Murrays see I’m afraidof them--I won’t _be_ afraid of them!”
When the far-off whistle of the afternoon train blew beyond the hills,Emily’s heart began to beat. She clasped her hands and lifted her face.
“Please help me, Father’s God--_not_ Ellen’s God,” she said. “Help meto be brave and not cry before the Murrays.”
Soon after there was the sound of wheels below--and voices--loud,decided voices. Then Ellen came puffing up the stairs with the blackdress--a sleazy thing of cheap merino.
“Mrs. Hubbard just got it done in time, thanks be. I wouldn’t ’a’had the Murrays see you not in black for the world. They can’t say Ihaven’t done my duty. They’re all here--the New Moon people and Oliverand his wife, your Aunt Addie, and Wallace and his wife, your Aunt Eva,and Aunt Ruth--Mrs. Dutton, _her_ name is. There, you’re ready now.Come along.”
“Can’t I put my Venetian beads on?” asked Emily.
“Did ever any mortal! Venetian beads with a mourning dress! Shame onyou! Is this a time to be thinking of vanity?”
“It isn’t vanity!” cried Emily. “Father gave me those beads lastChristmas--and I want to show the Murrays that I’ve got _something_!”
“No more of your nonsense! Come along, I say! Mind yourmanners--there’s a good deal depends on the impression you make onthem.”
Emily walked rigidly downstairs before Ellen and into the parlour.Eight people were sitting around it--and she instantly felt thecritical gaze of sixteen stranger eyes. She looked very pale and plainin her black dress; the purple shadows left by weeping made her largeeyes look too large and hollow. She was desperately afraid, and sheknew it--but she would not let the Murrays see it. She held up her headand faced the ordeal before her gallantly.
“This,” said Ellen, turning her around by the shoulder, “is your UncleWallace.”
Emily shuddered and put out a cold hand. She did not like UncleWallace--she knew that at once--he was black and grim and ugly, withfrowning, bristly brows and a stern, unpitying mouth. He had bigpouches under his eyes, and carefully-trimmed black side-whiskers.Emily decided then and there that she did not admire side-whiskers.
“How do you do, Emily?” he said coldly--and just as coldly he bentforward and kissed her cheek.
A sudden wave of indignation swept over Emily’s soul. How _dared_ hekiss her--he had hated her father and disowned her mother! She wouldhave none of his kisses! Flash-quick, she snatched her handkerchieffrom her pocket and wiped her outraged cheek.
“Well--_well_!” exclaimed a disagreeable voice from the other side ofthe room.
Uncle Wallace looked as if he would like to say a great many things butcouldn’t think of them. Ellen, with a grunt of despair, propelled Emilyto the next sitter.
“Your Aunt Eva,” she said.
Aunt Eva was sitting huddled up in a shawl. She had the fretful faceof the imaginary invalid. She shook hands with Emily and said nothing.Neither did Emily.
“Your Uncle Oliver,” announced Ellen.
Emily rather liked Uncle Oliver’s appearance. He was big and fat androsy and jolly-looking. She thought she would not mind so much if _he_kissed her, in spite of his bristly white moustache. But Uncle Oliverhad learned Uncle Wallace’s lesson.
“I’ll give you a quarter for a kiss,” he whispered genially. A joke wasUncle Oliver’s idea of being kind and sympathetic, but Emily did notknow this, and resented it.
“I don’t _sell_ my kisses,” she said, lifting her head as haughtily asany Murray of them all could do.
Uncle Oliver chuckled and seemed infinitely amused and not a bitoffended. But Emily heard a sniff across the room.
Aunt Addie was next. She was as fat and rosy and jolly-looking as herhusband and she gave Emily’s cold hand a nice, gentle squeeze.
“How are you, dear?” she said.
That “dear” touched Emily and thawed her a trifle. But the next inturn froze her up instantly again. It was Aunt Ruth--Emily knew it wasAunt Ruth before Ellen said so, and she knew it was Aunt Ruth who had“well--welled” and sniffed. She knew the cold, grey eyes, the prim, dullbrown hair, the short, stout figure, the thin, pinched, merciless mouth.
Aunt Ruth held out the tips of her fingers, but Emily did not take them.
“Shake hands with your Aunt,” said Ellen in an angry whisper.
“She does not want to shake hands with me,” said Emily, distinctly,“and so I am not going to do it.”
Aunt Ruth folded her scorned hands back on her black silk lap.
“You are a very ill-bred child,” she said; “but of course it was onlywhat was to be expected.”
Emily felt a sudden compunction. Had she cast a reflection on herfather by her behaviour? Perhaps after all she should have shaken handswith Aunt Ruth. But it was too late now--Ellen had already jerked heron.
“This is your Cousin, Mr. James Murray,” said Ellen, in the disgustedtone of one who gives up something as a bad job and is only anxious tobe done with it.
“Cousin Jimmy--Cousin Jimmy,” said that individual. Emily lookedsteadily at him, and liked him at once without any reservations.
He had a little, rosy, elfish face with a forked grey beard; his haircurled over his head in a most un-Murray-like mop of glossy brown; andhis large, brown eyes were as kind and frank as a child’s. He gaveEmily a hearty handshake, though he looked askance at the lady acrossfrom him while doing it.
“Hello, pussy!” he said.
Emily began to smile at him, but her smile was, as always, so slow indeveloping that Ellen had whisked her on before it was in full flower,and it was Aunt Laura who got the benefit of it. Aunt Laura started andpaled.
“Juliet’s smile!” she said, half under her breath. And again Aunt Ruthsniffed.
Aunt Laura did not look like any one else in the room. She was almostpretty, with her delicate features and the heavy coils of pale, sleek,fair hair, faintly greyed, pinned closely all around her head. But itwas her eyes that won Emily. They were such round blue, _blue_ eyes.One never quite got over the shock of their blueness. And when shespoke it was in a beautiful, soft voice.
“You poor, dear, little child,” she said, and put her arm around Emilyfor a gentle hug.
Emily returned the hug and had a narrow escape then from lettingthe Murrays see her cry. All that saved her was the fact that Ellensuddenly pushed her on into the corner by the window.
“And this is your Aunt Elizabeth.”
Yes, this was Aunt Elizabeth. No doubt about that--and she had on astiff, black satin dress, so stiff and rich that Emily felt sure itmust be her very best. This pleased Emily. Whatever Aunt Elizabeththought of her father, at least she had paid him the respect of herbest dress. And Aunt Elizabeth was quite fine looking in a tall,thin, austere style, with clear-cut features and a massive coronetof iron-grey hair under her black lace cap. But her eyes, thoughsteel-blue, were as cold as Aunt Ruth’s, and her long, thin mouth wascompressed severely. Under her cool, appraising glance Emily retreatedinto herself and shut the door of her soul. She would have liked toplease Aunt Elizabeth--who was “boss” at New Moon--but she felt shecould not do it.
Aunt Elizabeth shook hands and said nothing--the truth being that shedid not know exactly what to say. Elizabeth Murray would not have felt“put about” before King or Governor-General. The Murray pride wouldhave carried her through there; but she did feel disturbed in thepresence of this alien, level-gazing child who had already shown thatshe was anything but meek and humble. Though Elizabeth Murray wouldnever have admitted it, she did not want to be snubbed as Wallace andRuth had been.
“Go and sit on the sofa,” ordered Ellen.
Emily sat on the sofa with her eyes cast down, a slight, black,indomitable little figure. She folded her hands on her lap and crossedher ankles. They should see she had manners.
Ellen had retreated to the kitchen, thanking her stars that _that_ wasover. Emily did not like Ellen but she felt deserted when Ellen hadgone. She was alone now before the bar of Murray opinion. She wouldhave given anything to be out of the room. Yet in the back of her minda design was forming of writing all about it in the old account book.It would be interesting. She could describe them all--she knew shecould. She had the very word for Aunt Ruth’s eyes--“stone-grey.” Theywere just like stones--as hard and cold and relentless. Then a pangtore through her heart. Father could never again read what she wrote inthe account book.
Still--she felt that she would rather like to write it all out. Howcould she best describe Aunt Laura’s eyes? They were such beautifuleyes--just to call them “blue” meant nothing--hundreds of people hadblue eyes--oh, she had it--“wells of blue”--that was the very thing.
And then the flash came!
It was the first time since the dreadful night when Ellen had met heron the doorstep. She had thought it could never come again--and now inthis most unlikely place and time it _had_ come--she had seen, withother eyes than those of sense, the wonderful world behind the veil.Courage and hope flooded her cold little soul like a wave of rosylight. She lifted her head and looked about her undauntedly--“brazenly”Aunt Ruth afterwards declared.
Yes, she _would_ write them all out in the account book--describeevery last one of them--sweet Aunt Laura, nice Cousin Jimmy, grim oldUncle Wallace, and moon-faced Uncle Oliver, stately Aunt Elizabeth anddetestable Aunt Ruth.
“She’s a delicate-looking child,” said Aunt Eva, suddenly, in herfretful, colourless voice.
“Well, what else could you expect?” said Aunt Addie, with a sigh thatseemed to Emily to hold some dire significance. “She’s too pale--if shehad a little colour she wouldn’t be bad-looking.”
“I don’t know who she looks like,” said Uncle Oliver, staring at Emily.
“She is not a Murray, that is plain to be seen,” said Aunt Elizabeth,decidedly and disapprovingly.
“They are talking about me just as if I wasn’t here,” thought Emily,her heart swelling with indignation over the indecency of it.
“I wouldn’t call her a Starr either,” said Uncle Oliver. “Seems to meshe’s more like the Byrds--she’s got her grandmother’s hair and eyes.”
“She’s got old George Byrd’s nose,” said Aunt Ruth, in a tone that leftno doubt as to her opinion of George’s nose.
“She’s got her father’s forehead,” said Aunt Eva, also disapprovingly.
“She has her mother’s smile,” said Aunt Laura, but in such a low tonethat nobody heard her.
“And Juliet’s long lashes--hadn’t Juliet very long lashes?” said AuntAddie.
Emily had reached the limit of her endurance.
“You make me feel as if I was made up of scraps and patches!” she burstout indignantly.
The Murrays stared at her. Perhaps they felt some compunction--for,after all, none of them were ogres and all were human, more or less.Apparently nobody could think of anything to say, but the shockedsilence was broken by a chuckle from Cousin Jimmy--a low chuckle, fullof mirth and free from malice.
“That’s right, puss,” he said. “Stand up to them--take your own part.”
“Jimmy!” said Aunt Ruth.
Jimmy subsided.
Aunt Ruth looked at Emily.
“When I was a little girl,” she said, “I never spoke until I was spokento.”
“But if nobody ever spoke until they were spoken to there would be noconversation,” said Emily argumentatively.
“I never answered back,” Aunt Ruth went on severely. “In those dayslittle girls were trained properly. We were polite and respectful toour elders. We were taught our place and we kept it.”
“I don’t believe you ever had much fun,” said Emily--and then gasped inhorror. She hadn’t meant to say that out loud--she had only meant to_think_ it. But she had such an old habit of thinking aloud to Father.
“Fun!” said Aunt Ruth, in a shocked tone. “I did not think of fun whenI was a little girl.”
“No, I know,” said Emily gravely. Her voice and manner were perfectlyrespectful, for she was anxious to atone for her involuntary lapse.Yet Aunt Ruth looked as if she would like to box her ears. This childwas _pitying_ her--insulting her by being sorry for _her_--because ofher prim, impeccable childhood. It was unendurable--especially in aStarr. And that abominable Jimmy was chuckling again! Elizabeth shouldsuppress him!
Fortunately Ellen Greene appeared at this juncture and announced supper.
“You’ve got to wait,” she whispered to Emily. “There ain’t room for youat the table.”
Emily was glad. She knew she could not eat a bite under the Murrayeyes. Her aunts and uncles filed out stiffly without looking ather--all except Aunt Laura, who turned at the door and blew her a tiny,furtive kiss. Before Emily could respond Ellen Greene had shut the door.
Emily was left all alone in the room that was filling with twilightshadows. The pride that had sustained her in the presence of theMurrays suddenly failed her and she knew that tears were coming. Shewent straight to the closed door at the end of the parlour, openedit, and went in. Her father’s coffin stood in the centre of the smallroom which had been a bedroom. It was heaped with flowers--the Murrayshad done the proper thing in that as in all else. The great anchor ofwhite roses Uncle Wallace had brought stood up aggressively on thesmall table at the head. Emily could not see her father’s face for AuntRuth’s heavily-fragrant pillow of white hyacinths lying on the glass,and she dared not move it. But she curled herself up on the floor andlaid her cheek against the polished side of the casket. They found herthere asleep when they came in after supper. Aunt Laura lifted her upand said,
“I’m going to take the poor child up to bed--she’s worn right out.”
Emily opened her eyes and looked drowsily about her.
“Can I have Mike?” she said.
“Who is Mike?”
“My cat--my big grey cat.”
“A cat!” exclaimed Aunt Elizabeth in a shocked tone. “You must not havea cat in your bedroom!”
“Why not--for once?” pleaded Laura.
“Certainly not!” said Aunt Elizabeth. “A cat is a most unwholesomething in a sleeping apartment. I’m surprised at you, Laura! Take thechild up to bed and see that there are plenty of bedclothes. It’s acold night--but let me hear no more talk of sleeping with cats.”
“Mike is a clean cat,” said Emily. “He washes himself--every day.”
“Take her up to bed, Laura!” said Aunt Elizabeth, ignoring Emily.
Aunt Laura yielded meekly. She carried Emily upstairs, helped herundress, and tucked her into bed. Emily was very sleepy. But beforeshe was wholly asleep she felt something, soft and warm and purry andcompanionable, snuggling down by her shoulder. Aunt Laura had sneakeddown, found Mike and brought him up to her. Aunt Elizabeth never knewand Ellen Greene dared not say a word in protest--for was not Laura aMurray of New Moon?



CHAPTER IV
A FAMILY CONCLAVE

Emily wakened at daylight the next morning. Through her low,uncurtained window the splendour of the sunrise was coming in, and onefaint, white star was still lingering in the crystal-green sky over theRooster Pine. A fresh sweet wind of dawn was blowing around the eaves.Ellen Greene was sleeping in the big bed and snoring soundly. Exceptfor that the little house was very still. It was the chance for whichEmily had waited.
Very carefully she slipped from her bed, tiptoed across the room andopened the door. Mike uncoiled himself from the mat on the middle ofthe floor and followed her, rubbing his warm sides against her chillylittle ankles. Almost guiltily she crept down the bare, dark staircase.How the steps creaked--surely it would waken everybody! But nobodyappeared and Emily got down and slipped into the parlour, drawing along breath of relief as she closed the door. She almost ran across theroom to the other door.
Aunt Ruth’s floral pillow still covered the glass of the casket. Emily,with a tightening of the lips that gave her face an odd resemblance toAunt Elizabeth, lifted up the pillow and set it on the floor.
“Oh, Father--Father!” she whispered, putting her hand to her throat tokeep something down. She stood there, a little shivering, white-cladfigure, and looked at her father. This was to be her good-bye; she mustsay it when they were alone together--she would not say it before theMurrays.
Father looked so beautiful. All the lines of pain had vanished--hisface looked almost like a boy’s except for the silver hair above it.And he was smiling--such a nice, whimsical, wise little smile, as if hehad suddenly discovered something lovely and unexpected and surprising.She had seen many nice smiles on his face in life but never one justlike this.
“Father, I didn’t cry before them,” she whispered. “I’m sure I didn’tdisgrace the Starrs. Not shaking hands with Aunt Ruth wasn’t disgracingthe Starrs, was it? Because she didn’t really want me to--oh, Father,I don’t think any of them like me, unless perhaps Aunt Laura does alittle. And I’m going to cry a little bit now, Father, because I can’tkeep it back _all_ the time.”
She laid her face on the cold glass and sobbed bitterly but briefly.She must say good-bye before any one found her. Raising her head shelooked long and earnestly at the beloved face.
“Good-bye, dearest darling,” she whispered chokingly.
Dashing away her blinding tears she replaced Aunt Ruth’s pillow, hidingher father’s face from her forever. Then she slipped out, intent onspeedily regaining her room. At the door she almost fell over CousinJimmy, who was sitting on a chair before it, swathed in a huge, checkeddressing-gown, and nursing Mike.
“S-s-h!” he whispered, patting her on the shoulder. “_I_ heard youcoming down and followed you. _I_ knew what you wanted. I’ve beensitting here to keep them out if any of them came after you. Here, takethis and hurry back to your bed, small pussy.”
“This” was a roll of peppermint lozenges. Emily clutched it and fled,overcome with shame at being seen by Cousin Jimmy in her nightgown.She hated peppermints and never ate them, but the fact of Cousin JimmyMurray’s kindness in giving them to her sent a thrill of delight to herheart. And he called her “small pussy,” too,--she liked that. She hadthought nobody would ever call her nice pet names again. Father had hadso many of them for her--“sweetheart” and “darling” and “Emily-child”and “dear wee kidlet” and “honey” and “elfkin.” He had a pet name forevery mood and she had loved them all. As for Cousin Jimmy, he wasnice. Whatever part of him was missing it wasn’t his heart. She felt sograteful to him that after she was safely in her bed again she forcedherself to eat one of the lozenges, though it took all her grit toworry it down.
The funeral was held that forenoon. For once the lonesome little housein the hollow was filled. The coffin was taken into the parlour andthe Murrays as mourners sat stiffly and decorously all round it, Emilyamong them, pale and prim in her black dress. She sat between AuntElizabeth and Uncle Wallace and dared not move a muscle. No other Starrwas present. Her father had no near living relatives. The Maywoodpeople came and looked at his dead face with a freedom and insolentcuriosity they would never have presumed on in life. Emily hated tohave them looking at her father like that. They had no right--theyhadn’t been friendly to him while he was alive--they had said harshthings of him--Ellen Greene had sometimes repeated them. Every glancethat fell on him hurt Emily; but she sat still and gave no outwardsign. Aunt Ruth said afterwards that she had never seen a child soabsolutely devoid of all natural feeling.
When the service was over the Murrays rose and marched around thecoffin for a dutiful look of farewell. Aunt Elizabeth took Emily’shand and tried to draw her along with them but Emily pulled it backand shook her head. She had said her good-bye already. Aunt Elizabethseemed for a moment to be on the point of insisting; then she grimlyswept onward, alone, looking every inch a Murray. No scene must be madeat a funeral.
Douglas Starr was to be taken to Charlottetown for burial beside hiswife. The Murrays were all going but Emily was not to go. She watchedthe funeral procession as it wound up the long, grassy hill, throughthe light grey rain that was beginning to fall. Emily was glad it wasraining; many a time she had heard Ellen Greene say that happy was thecorpse the rain fell on; and it was easier to see Father go away inthat soft, kind, grey mist than through sparkling, laughing sunshine.
“Well, I must say the funeral went off fine,” said Ellen Greene ather shoulder. “Everything’s been done regardless. If your father waslooking down from heaven at it, Emily, I’m sure he’d be pleased.”
“He isn’t in heaven,” said Emily.
“Good gracious! Of all the children!” Ellen could say no more.
“He isn’t there _yet_. He’s only on the way. He said he’d wait aroundand go slow until I died, too, so that I could catch up with him. Ihope I’ll die soon.”
“That’s a wicked, wicked thing to wish,” rebuked Ellen.
When the last buggy had disappeared Emily went back to thesitting-room, got a book out of the bookcase, and buried herself in thewing-chair. The women who were tidying up were glad she was quiet andout of the way.
“It’s well she can read,” said Mrs. Hubbard gloomily. “Some littlegirls couldn’t be so composed--Jennie Hood just screamed and shriekedafter they carried her mother out--the Hoods are all such a _feeling_people.”
Emily was not reading. She was thinking. She knew the Murrays would beback in the afternoon; and she knew her fate would probably be settledthen. “We’ll talk the matter over when we come back,” she had heardUncle Wallace saying that morning after breakfast. Some instinct toldher just what “the matter” was; and she would have given one of herpointed ears to hear the discussion with the other. But she knew verywell she would be sent out of the way. So she was not surprised whenEllen came to her in the twilight and said:
“You’d better go upstairs, Emily. Your aunts and uncles are coming inhere to talk over the business.”
“Can’t I help you get supper?” asked Emily, who thought that if shewere going and coming around the kitchen she might catch a word or two.
“No. You’d be more bother than help. March, now.”
Ellen waddled out to the kitchen, without waiting to see if Emilymarched. Emily got up reluctantly. How could she sleep to-night if shedid not know what was going to happen to her? And she felt quite sureshe would not be told till morning, if then.
Her eyes fell on the oblong table in the centre of the room. Its clothwas of generous proportions, falling in heavy folds to the floor. Therewas a flash of black stockings across the rug, a sudden disturbanceof drapery, and then--silence. Emily, on the floor under the table,arranged her legs comfortably and sat triumphant. She would hear whatwas decided and nobody would be any the wiser.
She had never been told that it was not considered strictly honourableto eavesdrop, no occasion for such instruction ever having arisen inher life with her father; and she considered that it was a bit of pureluck that she had thought of hiding under the table. She could even seedimly through the cloth. Her heart beat so loudly in her excitementthat she was afraid they would hear it; there was no other sound savethe soft, faraway singing of frogs through the rain, that soundedthrough the open window.
In they came; down they sat around the room; Emily held her breath; fora few minutes nobody spoke, though Aunt Eva sighed long and heavily.Then Uncle Wallace cleared his throat and said,
“Well, what is to be done with the child?”
Nobody was in a hurry to answer. Emily thought they would _never_speak. Finally Aunt Eva said with a whine,
“She’s such a difficult child--so odd. _I_ can’t understand her at all.”
“I think,” said Aunt Laura timidly, “that she has what one might callan artistic temperament.”
“She’s a spoiled child,” said Aunt Ruth very decidedly. “There’s workahead to straighten out _her_ manners, if you ask me.”
(The little listener under the table turned her head and shot ascornful glance at Aunt Ruth through the tablecloth. “_I_ think thatyour own manners have a slight curve.” Emily did not dare even tomurmur the words under her breath, but she shaped them with her mouth;this was a great relief and satisfaction.)
“I agree with you,” said Aunt Eva, “and I for one do not feel equal tothe task.”
(Emily understood that this meant Uncle Wallace didn’t mean to take herand she rejoiced thereat.)
“The truth is,” said Uncle Wallace, “Aunt Nancy ought to take her. Shehas more of this world’s goods than any of us.”
“Aunt Nancy would never dream of taking her and you know it wellenough!” said Uncle Oliver. “Besides, she’s entirely too old to havethe bringing up of a child--her and that old witch Caroline. Upon mysoul, I don’t believe either of them is human. I would like to takeEmily--but I feel that I can hardly do it. I’ve a large family toprovide for.”
“She’ll not likely live long to bother any one,” said Aunt Elizabethcrisply. “She’ll probably die of consumption same as her father did.”
(“I won’t--I won’t!” exclaimed Emily--at least she _thought_ it withsuch vim that it almost seemed that she exclaimed it. She forgot thatshe had wanted to die soon, so that she could overtake Father. Shewanted to live now, just to put the Murrays in the wrong. “I haven’t_any_ intention of dying. I’m going to live--for ages--and be a famous_authoress_--you’ll just see if I don’t, Aunt Elizabeth Murray!”)
“She _is_ a weedy looking child,” acknowledged Uncle Wallace.
(Emily relieved her outraged feelings by making a face at Uncle Wallacethrough the tablecloth. “If I ever possess a pig I am going to nameit after _you_,” she thought--and then felt quite satisfied with herrevenge.)
“Somebody has to look after her as long as she’s alive though, youknow,” said Uncle Oliver.
(“It would serve you all right if I _did_ die and you suffered terribleremorse for it all the rest of your lives,” Emily thought. Then inthe pause that happened to follow, she dramatically pictured out herfuneral, selected her pall-bearers, and tried to choose the hymn versethat she wanted engraved on her tombstone. But before she could settlethis Uncle Wallace began again.)
“Well, we are not getting anywhere. We have to look after the child--”
(“I _wish_ you wouldn’t call me ‘_the child_,’” thought Emily bitterly.)
“--and some of us must give her a home. Juliet’s daughter must not beleft to the mercy of strangers. Personally, I feel that Eva’s health isnot equal to the care and training of a child--”
“Of _such_ a child,” said Aunt Eva.
(Emily stuck her tongue out at Aunt Eva.)
“Poor little soul,” said Aunt Laura gently.
(Something frozen in Emily’s heart melted at that moment. She waspitifully pleased over being called “poor little soul” so tenderly.)
“I do not think you need pity her overmuch, Laura,” said Uncle Wallacedecidedly. “It is evident that she has very little feeling. I have notseen her shed a tear since we came here.”
“Did you notice that she would not even take a last look at herfather?” said Aunt Elizabeth.
Cousin Jimmy suddenly whistled at the ceiling.
“She feels so much that she has to hide it,” said Aunt Laura.
Uncle Wallace snorted.
“Don’t you think _we_ might take her, Elizabeth?” Laura went on timidly.
Aunt Elizabeth stirred restlessly.
“I don’t suppose she’d be contented at New Moon, with three old peoplelike us.”
(“I would--I would!” thought Emily.)
“Ruth, what about you?” said Uncle Wallace. “You’re all alone in thatbig house. It would be a good thing for you to have some company.”
“I don’t like her,” said Aunt Ruth sharply. “She is as sly as a snake.”
(“I’m _not_!” thought Emily.)
“With wise and careful training many of her faults may be cured,” saidUncle Wallace, pompously.
(“I don’t _want_ them cured!” Emily was getting angrier and angrierall the time under the table. “I like _my_ faults better than I do_your_--_your_--” she fumbled mentally for a word--then triumphantlyrecalled a phrase of her father’s--“your _abominable_ virtues!”)
“I doubt it,” said Aunt Ruth, in a biting tone. “What’s bred in thebone comes out in the flesh. As for Douglas Starr, I think that it wasperfectly disgraceful for him to die and leave that child without acent.”
“Did he do it on purpose?” asked Cousin Jimmy blandly. It was the firsttime he had spoken.
“He was a miserable failure,” snapped Aunt Ruth.
“He wasn’t--he wasn’t!” screamed Emily, suddenly sticking her head outunder the tablecloth, between the end legs of the table.
For a moment the Murrays sat as silent and motionless as if heroutburst had turned them to stone. Then Aunt Ruth rose, stalked to thetable, and lifted the cloth, behind which Emily had retired in dismay,realising what she had done.
“Get up and come out of that, Em’ly Starr!” said Aunt Ruth.
“Em’ly Starr” got up and came out. She was not speciallyfrightened--she was too angry to be that. Her eyes had gone black andher cheeks crimson.
“What a little beauty--what a regular little beauty!” said CousinJimmy. But nobody heard him. Aunt Ruth had the floor.
“You shameless little eavesdropper!” she said. “There’s the Starr bloodcoming out--a Murray would never have done such a thing. You ought tobe whipped!”
“Father wasn’t a failure!” cried Emily, choking with anger. “You had noright to call him a failure. Nobody who was loved as much as he wascould be a failure. I don’t believe anybody _ever_ loved you. So it’s_you_ that’s a failure. And I’m _not_ going to die of consumption.”
“Do you realize what a shameful thing you’ve been guilty of?” demandedAunt Ruth, cold with anger.
“I wanted to hear what was going to become of me,” cried Emily. “Ididn’t know it was such a dreadful thing to do--I didn’t know you weregoing to say such horrid things about me.”
“Listeners never hear any good of themselves,” said Aunt Elizabethimpressively. “Your mother would _never_ have done that, Emily.”
The bravado all went out of poor Emily. She felt guilty andmiserable--oh, so miserable. She hadn’t known--but it seemed she hadcommitted a terrible sin.
“Go upstairs,” said Aunt Ruth.
Emily went, without a protest. But before going she looked around theroom.
“While I was under the table,” she said, “I made a face at UncleWallace and stuck my tongue out at Aunt Eva.”
She said it sorrowfully, desiring to make a clean breast of hertransgressions; but so easily do we misunderstand each other thatthe Murrays actually thought that she was indulging in a piece ofgratuitous impertinence. When the door had closed behind her theyall--except Aunt Laura and Cousin Jimmy--shook their heads and groaned.
Emily went upstairs in a state of bitter humiliation. She felt that shehad done something that gave the Murrays the right to despise her, andthey thought it was the Starr coming out in her--and she had not evenfound out what her fate was to be.
She looked dismally at little Emily-in-the-glass.
“I didn’t know--I didn’t know,” she whispered. “But I’ll know afterthis,” she added with sudden vim, “and I’ll never, _never_ do itagain.”
For a moment she thought she would throw herself on her bed and cry.She _couldn’t_ bear all the pain and shame that were burning in herheart. Then her eyes fell on the old yellow account book on her littletable. A minute later Emily was curled up on her bed, Turk-fashion,writing eagerly in the old book with her little stubby lead pencil.As her fingers flew over the faded lines her cheeks flushed and hereyes shone. She forgot the Murrays although she was writing aboutthem--she forgot her humiliation--although she was describing what hadhappened; for an hour she wrote steadily by the wretched light of hersmoky little lamp, never pausing, save now and then, to gaze out of thewindow into the dim beauty of the misty night, while she hunted throughher consciousness for a certain word she wanted; when she found it shegave a happy sigh and fell to again.
When she heard the Murrays coming upstairs she put her book away. Shehad finished; she had written a description of the whole occurrence andof that conclave ring of Murrays, and she had wound up by a patheticdescription of her own deathbed, with the Murrays standing aroundimploring her forgiveness. At first she depicted Aunt Ruth as doingit on her knees in an agony of remorseful sobs. Then she suspendedher pencil--“Aunt Ruth couldn’t _ever_ feel as bad as _that_ overanything,” she thought--and drew her pencil through the line.
In the writing, pain and humiliation had passed away. She only felttired and rather happy. It _had_ been fun, finding words to fit UncleWallace; and what exquisite satisfaction it had been to describe AuntRuth as “a dumpy little woman.”
“I wonder what my uncles and aunts would say if they knew what I_really_ think of them,” she murmured as she got into bed.



CHAPTER V
DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND

Emily, who had been pointedly ignored by the Murrays at breakfast, wascalled into the parlour when the meal was over.
They were all there--the whole phalanx of them--and it occurred toEmily as she looked at Uncle Wallace, sitting in the spring sunshine,that she had not just found the exact word after all to express hispeculiar quality of grimness.
Aunt Elizabeth stood unsmilingly by the table with slips of paper inher hand.
“Emily,” she said, “last night we could not decide who should take you.I may say that none of us feel very much like doing so, for you havebehaved very badly in many respects--”
“Oh, Elizabeth,--” protested Laura. “She--she is our sister’s child.”
Elizabeth lifted a hand regally.
“_I_ am doing this, Laura. Have the goodness not to interrupt me. As Iwas saying, Emily, we could not decide as to who should have the careof you. So we have agreed to Cousin Jimmy’s suggestion that we settlethe matter by lot. I have our names here, written on these slips ofpaper. You will draw one and the one whose name is on it will give youa home.”
Aunt Elizabeth held out the slips of paper. Emily trembled so violentlythat at first she could not draw one. This was terrible--it seemed asif she must blindly settle her own fate.
“Draw,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
Emily set her teeth, threw back her head with the air of one whochallenges destiny, and drew. Aunt Elizabeth took the slip from thelittle shaking hand and held it up. On it was her own name--“ElizabethMurray.” Laura Murray suddenly put her handkerchief to her eyes.
“Well, that’s settled,” said Uncle Wallace, getting up with an air ofrelief. “And if I’m going to catch that train I’ve got to hurry. Ofcourse, as far as the matter of expense goes, Elizabeth, I’ll do myshare.”
“We are not paupers at New Moon,” said Aunt Elizabeth rather coldly.“Since it has fallen to me to take her, I shall do all that isnecessary, Wallace. I do not shirk my duty.”
“_I_ am her duty,” thought Emily. “Father said nobody ever liked aduty. So Aunt Elizabeth will never like me.”
“You’ve got more of the Murray pride than all the rest of us puttogether, Elizabeth,” laughed Uncle Wallace.
They all followed him out--all except Aunt Laura. She came up to Emily,standing alone in the middle of the room, and drew her into her arms.
“I’m so glad, Emily--I’m so glad,” she whispered. “Don’t fret, dearchild. I love you already--and New Moon is a nice place, Emily.”
“It has--a pretty name,” said Emily, struggling for self-control.“I’ve--always hoped--I could go with you, Aunt Laura. I think I amgoing to cry--but it’s not because I’m sorry I’m going there. Mymanners are _not_ as bad as you may think, Aunt Laura--and I wouldn’thave listened last night if I’d known it was wrong.”
“Of course you wouldn’t,” said Aunt Laura.
“But I’m not a Murray, you know.”
Then Aunt Laura said a queer thing--for a Murray.
“Thank heaven for that!” said Aunt Laura.
Cousin Jimmy followed Emily out and overtook her in the little hall.Looking carefully around to ensure privacy, he whispered,
“Your Aunt Laura is a great hand at making an apple turnover, pussy.”
Emily thought apple turnover sounded nice, though she did not know whatit was. She whispered back a question which she would never have daredask Aunt Elizabeth or even Aunt Laura.
“Cousin Jimmy, when they make a cake at New Moon, will they let mescrape out the mixing-bowl and eat the scrapings?”
“Laura will--Elizabeth won’t,” whispered Cousin Jimmy solemnly.
“And put my feet in the oven when they get cold? And have a cookybefore I go to bed?”
“Answer same as before,” said Cousin Jimmy. “_I’ll_ recite my poetryto you. It’s very few people I do that for. I’ve composed a thousandpoems. They’re not written down--I carry them here.” Cousin Jimmytapped his forehead.
“Is it very hard to write poetry?” asked Emily, looking with newrespect at Cousin Jimmy.
“Easy as rolling off a log if you can find enough rhymes,” said CousinJimmy.
They all went away that morning except the New Moon people. AuntElizabeth announced that they would stay until the next day to pack upand take Emily with them.
“Most of the furniture belongs to the house,” she said, “so it won’ttake us long to get ready. There are only Douglas Starr’s books and hisfew personal belongings to pack.”
“How shall I carry my cats?” asked Emily anxiously.
Aunt Elizabeth stared.
“Cats! You’ll take no cats, miss.”
“Oh, I must take Mike and Saucy Sal!” cried Emily wildly. “I can’tleave them behind. I can’t live without a cat.”
“Nonsense! There are barn cats at New Moon, but they are never allowedin the house.”
“Don’t you like cats?” asked Emily wonderingly.
“No, I do _not_.”
“Don’t you like the _feel_ of a nice, soft, fat cat?” persisted Emily.
“No; I would as soon touch a snake.”
“There’s a lovely old wax doll of your mother’s up there,” said AuntLaura. “I’ll dress it up for you.”
“I don’t like dolls--they can’t talk,” exclaimed Emily.
“Neither can cats.”
“Oh, can’t they! Mike and Saucy Sal can. Oh, I _must_ take them. Oh,_please_, Aunt Elizabeth. I _love_ those cats. And they’re the onlythings left in the world that love me. Please!”
“What’s a cat more or less on two hundred acres?” said Cousin Jimmy,pulling his forked beard. “Take ’em along, Elizabeth.”
Aunt Elizabeth considered for a moment. She couldn’t understand whyanybody should want a cat. Aunt Elizabeth was one of those people whonever do understand anything unless it is told them in plain languageand hammered into their heads. And _then_ they understand it only withtheir brains and not with their hearts.
“You may take _one_ of your cats,” she said at last, with the air of aperson making a great concession. “One--and no more. No, don’t argue.You may as well learn first as last, Emily, that when _I_ say a thing Imean it. That’s enough, Jimmy.”
Cousin Jimmy bit off something he had tried to say, stuck his hands inhis pockets, and whistled at the ceiling.
“When she won’t, she won’t--Murray like. We’re all born with that kinkin us, small pussy, and you’ll have to put up with it--more by tokenthat you’re full of it yourself, you know. Talk about your not beingMurray! The Starr is only skin deep with you.”
“It isn’t--I’m _all_ Starr--I _want_ to be,” cried Emily. “And, oh, howcan I choose between Mike and Saucy Sal?”
This was indeed a problem. Emily wrestled with it all day, her heartbursting. She liked Mike best--there was no doubt of that; but she_couldn’t_ leave Saucy Sal to Ellen’s tender mercies. Ellen had alwayshated Sal; but she rather liked Mike and she would be good to him.Ellen was going back to her own little house in Maywood village and shewanted a cat. At last in the evening, Emily made her bitter decision.She would take Saucy Sal.
“Better take the Tom,” said Cousin Jimmy. “Not so much bother withkittens you know, Emily.”
“Jimmy!” said Aunt Elizabeth sternly. Emily wondered over thesternness. Why weren’t kittens to be spoken of? But she didn’t like tohear Mike called “the Tom.” It sounded insulting, someway.
And she didn’t like the bustle and commotion of packing up. She longedfor the old quiet and the sweet, remembered talks with her father.She felt as if he had been thrust far away from her by this influx ofMurrays.
“What’s this?” said Aunt Elizabeth suddenly, pausing for a moment inher packing. Emily looked up and saw with dismay that Aunt Elizabethhad in her hands the old account book--that she was opening it--thatshe was _reading_ in it. Emily sprang across the floor and snatched thebook.
“You mustn’t read that, Aunt Elizabeth,” she cried indignantly, “that’smine,--my own _private property_.”
“Hoity-toity, Miss Starr,” said Aunt Elizabeth, staring at her, “letme tell you that I have a right to read your books. I am responsiblefor you now. I am not going to have anything hidden or underhanded,understand that. You have evidently something there that you areashamed to have seen and I mean to see it. Give me that book.”
“I’m _not_ ashamed of it,” cried Emily, backing away, hugging herprecious book to her breast. “But I won’t let you--or _anybody_--seeit.”
Aunt Elizabeth followed.
“Emily Starr, do you hear what I say? Give me that book--at _once_.”
“No--no!” Emily turned and ran. She would _never_ let Aunt Elizabethsee that book. She fled to the kitchen stove--she whisked off acover--she crammed the book into the glowing fire. It caught and blazedmerrily. Emily watched it in agony. It seemed as if part of herselfwere burning there. But Aunt Elizabeth should never see it--see allthe little things she had written and read to Father--all her fanciesabout the Wind Woman, and Emily-in-the-glass--all her little catdialogues--all the things she had said in it last night about theMurrays. She watched the leaves shrivel and shudder, as if they weresentient things, and then turn black. A line of white writing came outvividly on one. “Aunt Elizabeth is very cold and _hawty_.” What ifAunt Elizabeth had seen _that_? What if she were seeing it now! Emilyglanced apprehensively over her shoulder. No, Aunt Elizabeth had goneback to the room and shut the door with what, in anybody but a Murray,would have been called a bang. The account book was a little heap ofwhite film on the glowing coals. Emily sat down by the stove and cried.She felt as if she had lost something incalculably precious. It wasterrible to think that all those dear things were gone. She could neverwrite them again--not just the same; and if she could she wouldn’tdare--she would never dare to write _anything_ again, if Aunt Elizabethmust see everything. Father never insisted on seeing them. She liked toread them to _him_--but if she hadn’t wanted to do it he would neverhave made her. Suddenly Emily, with tears glistening on her cheeks,wrote a line in an imaginary account book.
“Aunt Elizabeth is cold and hawty; and she is _not fair_.”
Next morning, while Cousin Jimmy was tying the boxes at the back ofthe double-seated buggy, and Aunt Elizabeth was giving Ellen her finalinstructions, Emily said good-bye to everything--to the Rooster Pineand Adam-and-Eve--“they’ll miss me so when I’m gone; there won’t beany one here to love them,” she said wistfully--to the spider crackin the kitchen window--to the old wing-chair--to the bed of stripedgrass--to the silver birch-ladies. Then she went upstairs to the windowof her own old room. That little window had always seemed to Emily toopen on a world of wonder. In the burned account book there had beenone piece of which she was especially proud. “A deskripshun of thevew from my Window.” She had sat there and dreamed; at night she usedto kneel there and say her little prayers. Sometimes the stars shonethrough it--sometimes the rain beat against it--sometimes the littlegreybirds and swallows visited it--sometimes airy fragrances floatedin from apple and lilac blossom--sometimes the Wind Woman laughedand sighed and sang and whistled round it--Emily had heard her therein the dark nights and in wild, white winter storms. She did not saygood-bye to the Wind Woman, for she knew the Wind Woman would be at NewMoon, too; but she said good-bye to the little window and the greenhill she had loved, and to her fairy-haunted barrens and to littleEmily-in-the-glass. There might be another Emily-in-the-glass at NewMoon, but she wouldn’t be the same one. And she unpinned from the walland stowed away in her pocket the picture of the ball dress she had cutfrom a fashion sheet. It was such a wonderful dress--all white laceand wreaths of rosebuds, with a long, long, train of lace flouncesthat must reach clear across a room. Emily had pictured herself athousand times wearing that dress, sweeping, a queen of beauty, acrossa ballroom floor.
Downstairs they were waiting for her. Emily said good-bye to EllenGreene rather indifferently--she had never liked Ellen Greene at anytime, and since the night Ellen had told her her father was going todie she had hated and feared her.
Ellen amazed Emily by bursting into tears and hugging her--begging hernot to forget her--asking her to write to her--calling her “my blessedchild.”
“I am not your blessed child,” said Emily, “but I will write to you.And will you be very good to Mike?”
“I b’lieve you feel worse over leaving that cat than you do overleaving me,” sniffed Ellen.
“Why, of course I do,” said Emily, amazed that there could be anyquestion about it.
It took all her resolution not to cry when she bade farewell to Mike,who was curled up on the sun-warm grass at the back door.
“Maybe I’ll see you again sometime,” she whispered as she hugged him.“I’m sure _good_ pussy cats go to heaven.”
Then they were off in the double-seated buggy with its fringed canopy,always affected by the Murrays of New Moon. Emily had never driven inanything so splendid before. She had never had many drives. Once ortwice her father had borrowed Mr. Hubbard’s old buckboard and grey ponyand driven to Charlottetown. The buckboard was rattly and the ponyslow, but Father had talked to her all the way and made the road awonder.
Cousin Jimmy and Aunt Elizabeth sat in front, the latter very imposingin black lace bonnet and mantle. Aunt Laura and Emily occupied the seatbehind, with Saucy Sal between them in a basket, shrieking piteously.
Emily glanced back as they drove up the grassy lane, and thought thelittle, old, brown house in the hollow had a broken-hearted look. Shelonged to run back and comfort it. In spite of her resolution, thetears came into her eyes; but Aunt Laura put a kid-gloved hand acrossSal’s basket and caught Emily’s in a close, understanding squeeze.
“Oh, I just love you, Aunt Laura,” whispered Emily.
And Aunt Laura’s eyes were very, very blue and deep and kind.



CHAPTER VI
NEW MOON

Emily found the drive through the blossomy June world pleasant. Nobodytalked much; even Saucy Sal had subsided into the silence of despair;now and then Cousin Jimmy made a remark, more to himself, as it seemed,than to anybody else. Sometimes Aunt Elizabeth answered it, sometimesnot. She always spoke crisply and used no unnecessary words.
They stopped in Charlottetown and had dinner. Emily, who had had noappetite since her father’s death, could not eat the roast beef whichthe boarding-house waitress put before her. Whereupon Aunt Elizabethwhispered mysteriously to the waitress, who went away and presentlyreturned with a plateful of delicate, cold chicken--fine white slices,beautifully trimmed with lettuce frills.
“Can you eat _that_?” said Aunt Elizabeth sternly, as to a culprit atthe bar.
“I’ll--try,” whispered Emily.
She was too frightened just then to say more, but by the time she hadforced down some of the chicken she had made up her small mind that acertain matter must be put right.
“Aunt Elizabeth,” she said.
“Hey, what?” said Aunt Elizabeth, directing her steel-blue eyesstraight at her niece’s troubled ones.
“I would like you to understand,” said Emily, speaking very primly andprecisely so that she would be sure to get things right, “that it wasnot because I did not like the roast beef I did not eat it. I was nothungry at all; and I just et some of the chicken to oblige you, notbecause I liked it any better.”
“Children should eat what is put before them and never turn up theirnoses at good, wholesome food,” said Aunt Elizabeth severely. So Emilyfelt that Aunt Elizabeth had not understood after all and she wasunhappy about it.
After dinner Aunt Elizabeth announced to Aunt Laura that they would dosome shopping.
“We must get some things for the child,” she said.
“Oh, please don’t call me ‘the child,’” exclaimed Emily. “It makesme feel as if I didn’t belong anywhere. Don’t you like my name, AuntElizabeth? Mother thought it so pretty. And I don’t need any ‘things.’I have two whole sets of underclothes--only one is patched.----”
“S-s-sh!” said Cousin Jimmy, gently kicking Emily’s shins under thetable.
Cousin Jimmy only meant that she would better let Aunt Elizabeth buy“things” for her when she was in the humour for it; but Emily thoughthe was rebuking her for mentioning such matters as underclothes andsubsided in scarlet conviction. Aunt Elizabeth went on talking to Lauraas if she had not heard.
“She must not wear that cheap black dress in Blair Water. You couldsift oatmeal through it. It is nonsense expecting a child of ten towear black at all. I shall get her a nice white dress with black sashfor good, and some black-and-white-check gingham for school. Jimmy,we’ll leave the child with you. Look after her.”
Cousin Jimmy’s method of looking after her was to take her to arestaurant down street and fill her up with ice-cream. Emily had neverhad many chances at ice-cream and she needed no urging, even withlack of appetite, to eat two saucerfuls. Cousin Jimmy eyed her withsatisfaction.
“No use my getting anything for you that Elizabeth could see,” he said.“But she can’t see what is inside of you. Make the most of your chance,for goodness alone knows when you’ll get any more.”
“Do you never have ice-cream at New Moon?”
Cousin Jimmy shook his head.
“Your Aunt Elizabeth doesn’t like new-fangled things. In the house, webelong to fifty years ago, but on the farm she has to give way. In thehouse--candles; in the dairy, her grandmother’s big pans to set themilk in. But, pussy, New Moon is a pretty good place after all. You’lllike it some day.”
“Are there any fairies there?” asked Emily, wistfully.
“The woods are full of ’em,” said Cousin Jimmy. “And so are thecolumbines in the old orchard. We grow columbines there on purpose forthe fairies.”
Emily sighed. Since she was eight she had known there were no fairiesanywhere nowadays; yet she hadn’t quite given up the hope that one ortwo might linger in old-fashioned, out-of-the-way spots. And where solikely as at New Moon?
“Really-truly fairies?” she questioned.
“Why, you know, if a fairy was really-truly it wouldn’t _be_ a fairy,”said Uncle Jimmy seriously. “Could it, now?”
Before Emily could think this out the aunts returned and soon they wereall on the road again. It was sunset when they came to Blair Water--arosy sunset that flooded the long, sandy sea-coast with colour andbrought red road and fir-darkened hill out in fleeting clearness ofoutline. Emily looked about her on her new environment and found itgood. She saw a big house peering whitely through a veil of tall oldtrees--no mushroom growth of yesterday’s birches but trees that hadloved and been loved by three generations--a glimpse of silver waterglistening through the dark spruces--that was the Blair Water itself,she knew--and a tall, golden-white church spire shooting up abovethe maple woods in the valley below. But it was none of these thatbrought her the flash--_that_ came with the sudden glimpse of the dear,friendly, little dormer window peeping through vines on the roof--andright over it, in the opalescent sky, a real new moon, golden andslender. Emily was tingling all over with it as Cousin Jimmy lifted herfrom the buggy and carried her into the kitchen.
She sat on a long wooden bench that was satin-smooth with age andscrubbing, and watched Aunt Elizabeth lighting candles here and there,in great, shining, brass candlesticks--on the shelf between thewindows, on the high dresser where the row of blue and white platesbegan to wink her a friendly welcome, on the long table in the corner.And as she lighted them, elvish “rabbits’ candles” flashed up amid thetrees outside the windows.
Emily had never seen a kitchen like this before. It had dark woodenwalls and low ceiling, with black rafters crossing it, from which hunghams and sides of bacon and bunches of herbs and new socks and mittens,and many other things, the names and uses of which Emily could notimagine. The sanded floor was spotlessly white, but the boards had beenscrubbed away through the years until the knots in them stuck up allover in funny little bosses, and in front of the stove they had sagged,making a queer, shallow little hollow. In one corner of the ceiling wasa large square hole which looked black and spookish in the candlelight,and made her feel creepy. _Something_ might pop down out of a holelike that if one hadn’t behaved just right, you know. And candles castsuch queer wavering shadows. Emily didn’t know whether she liked theNew Moon kitchen or not. It was an interesting place--and she ratherthought she would like to describe it in the old account book, if ithadn’t been burned--but Emily suddenly found herself trembling on theverge of tears.
“Cold?” said Aunt Laura kindly. “These June evenings are chilly yet.Come into the sitting-room--Jimmy has kindled a fire in the stovethere.”
Emily, fighting desperately for self-control, went into thesitting-room. It was much more cheerful than the kitchen. The floorwas covered with gay-striped homespun, the table had a bright crimsoncloth, the walls were hung with pretty, diamond-patterned paper, thecurtains were of wonderful pale-red damask with a design of whiteferns scattered all over them. They looked very rich and imposingand Murray-like. Emily had never seen such curtains before. But bestof all were the friendly gleams and flickers from the jolly hardwoodfire in the open stove that mellowed the ghostly candlelight withsomething warm and rosy-golden. Emily toasted her toes before it andfelt reviving interest in her surroundings. What lovely little leadedglass doors closed the china closets on either side of the high,black, polished mantel! What a funny, delightful shadow the carvedornament on the sideboard cast on the wall behind it--just like anegro’s side-face, Emily decided. What mysteries might lurk behind thechintz-lined glass doors of the bookcase! Books were Emily’s friendswherever she found them. She flew over to the bookcase and opened thedoor. But before she could see more than the backs of rather ponderousvolumes, Aunt Elizabeth came in, with a mug of milk and a plate whereonlay two little oatmeal cakes.
“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth sternly, “shut that door. Remember thatafter this you are not to meddle with things that don’t belong to you.”
“I thought books belonged to everybody,” said Emily.
“Ours don’t,” said Aunt Elizabeth, contriving to convey the impressionthat New Moon books were in a class by themselves. “Here is yoursupper, Emily. We are all so tired that we are just having a lunch. Eatit and then we will go to bed.”
Emily drank the milk and worried down the oat-cakes, still gazing abouther. How pretty the wallpaper was, with the garland of roses insidethe gilt diamond! Emily wondered if she could “see it in the air.” Shetried--yes, she could--there it hung, a yard from her eyes, a littlefairy pattern, suspended in mid-air like a screen. Emily had discoveredthat she possessed this odd knack when she was six. By a certainmovement of the muscles of her eyes, which she could never describe,she could produce a tiny replica of the wallpaper in the air beforeher--could hold it there and look at it as long as she liked--couldshift it back and forth, to any distance she chose, making it largeror smaller as it went farther away or came nearer. It was one of hersecret joys when she went into a new room anywhere to “see the paper inthe air.” And this New Moon paper made the prettiest fairy paper shehad ever seen.
“What are you staring at nothing in that queer way for?” demanded AuntElizabeth, suddenly returning.
Emily shrank into herself. She couldn’t explain to Aunt Elizabeth--AuntElizabeth would be like Ellen Greene and say she was “crazy.”
“I--I wasn’t staring at nothing.”
“Don’t contradict. I say you were,” retorted Aunt Elizabeth. “Don’t doit again. It gives your face an unnatural expression. Come now--we willgo upstairs. You are to sleep with me.”
Emily gave a gasp of dismay. She had hoped it might be with AuntLaura. Sleeping with Aunt Elizabeth seemed a very formidable thing.But she dared not protest. They went up to Aunt Elizabeth’s big,sombre bedroom where there was dark, grim wallpaper that could neverbe transformed into a fairy curtain, a high black bureau, toppedwith a tiny swing-mirror, so far above her that there could be noEmily-in-the-glass, tightly closed windows with dark-green curtains,a high bedstead with a dark-green canopy, and a huge, fat, smotheringfeather-bed, with high, hard pillows.
Emily stood still, gazing about her.
“Why don’t you get undressed?” asked Aunt Elizabeth.
“I--I don’t like to undress before you,” faltered Emily.
Aunt Elizabeth looked at Emily through her cold, spectacled eyes.
“Take off your clothes, _at once_,” she said.
Emily obeyed, tingling with anger and shame. It was abominable--takingoff her clothes while Aunt Elizabeth stood and watched her. The outrageof it was unspeakable. It was even harder to say her prayers beforeAunt Elizabeth. Emily felt that it was not much good to pray under suchcircumstances. Father’s God seemed very far away and she suspected thatAunt Elizabeth’s was too much like Ellen Greene’s.
“Get into bed,” said Aunt Elizabeth, turning down the clothes.
Emily glanced at the shrouded window.
“Aren’t you going to open the window, Aunt Elizabeth?”
Aunt Elizabeth looked at Emily as if the latter had suggested removingthe roof.
“Open the window--and let in the night air!” she exclaimed. “Certainlynot!”
“Father and I always had our window open,” cried Emily.
“No wonder he died of consumption,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “Night air ispoison.”
“What air is there at night but night air?” asked Emily.
“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth icily, “get--into--bed.”
Emily got in.
But it was utterly impossible to sleep, lying there in that engulfingbed that seemed to swallow her up, with that cloud of blackness aboveher and not a gleam of light anywhere--and Aunt Elizabeth lying besideher, long and stiff and bony.
“I feel as if I was in bed with a griffin,” thought Emily.“Oh--oh--oh--I’m going to cry--I know I am.”
Desperately and vainly she strove to keep the tears back--they _would_come. She felt utterly alone and lonely--there in that darkness, withan alien, hostile world all around her--for it seemed hostile now. Andthere was such a strange, mysterious, mournful sound in the air--faraway, yet clear. It was the murmur of the sea, but Emily did not knowthat and it frightened her. Oh, for her little bed at home--oh, forFather’s soft breathing in the room--oh, for the dancing friendlinessof well-known stars shining down through her open window! She _must_ goback--she couldn’t stay here--she would never be happy here! But therewasn’t any “back” to go to--no home--no father--. A great sob burstfrom her--another followed and then another. It was no use to clenchher hands and set her teeth--and chew the inside of her cheeks--natureconquered pride and determination and had her way.
“What are you crying for?” asked Aunt Elizabeth.
To tell the truth Aunt Elizabeth felt quite as uncomfortable anddisjointed as Emily did. She was not used to a bedfellow; she didn’twant to sleep with Emily any more than Emily wanted to sleep withher. But she considered it quite impossible that the child shouldbe put off by herself in one of the big, lonely New Moon rooms; andLaura was a poor sleeper, easily disturbed; children always kicked,Elizabeth Murray had heard. So there was nothing to do but take Emilyin with her; and when she had sacrificed comfort and inclination todo her unwelcome duty this ungrateful and unsatisfactory child was notcontented.
“I asked you what you were crying for, Emily?” she repeated.
“I’m--homesick, I guess,” sobbed Emily.
Aunt Elizabeth was annoyed.
“A nice home you had to be homesick for,” she said sharply.
“It--it wasn’t as elegant--as New Moon,” sobbed Emily, “but--_Father_was there. I guess I’m Father-sick, Aunt Elizabeth. Didn’t you feelawfully lonely when _your_ father died?”
Elizabeth Murray involuntarily remembered the ashamed, smotheredfeeling of relief when old Archibald Murray had died--the handsome,intolerant, autocratic old man who had ruled his family with a rodof iron all his life and had made existence at New Moon miserablewith the petulant tyranny of the five years of invalidism that hadclosed his career. The surviving Murrays had behaved impeccably, andwept decorously, and printed a long and flattering obituary. But hadone genuine feeling of regret followed Archibald Murray to his tomb?Elizabeth did not like the memory and was angry with Emily for evokingit.
“I was resigned to the will of Providence,” she said coldly. “Emily,you must understand right now that you are to be grateful and obedientand show your appreciation of what is being done for you. I won’t havetears and repining. What would you have done if you had no friends totake you in? Answer me that.”
“I suppose I would have starved to death,” admitted Emily--instantlybeholding a dramatic vision of herself lying dead, looking exactly likethe pictures she had seen in one of Ellen Greene’s missionary magazinesdepicting the victims of an Indian famine.
“Not exactly--but you would have been sent to some orphanage where youwould have been half-starved, probably. You little know what you haveescaped. You have come to a good home where you will be cared for andeducated properly.”
Emily did not altogether like the sound of being “educated properly.”But she said humbly,
“I know it was very good of you to bring me to New Moon, AuntElizabeth. And I won’t bother you long, you know. I’ll soon be grown-upand able to earn my own living. What do you think is the earliest age aperson can be called grown-up, Aunt Elizabeth?”
“You needn’t think about that,” said Aunt Elizabeth shortly. “TheMurray women have never been under any necessity for earning their ownliving. All we require of you is to be a good and contented child andto conduct yourself with becoming prudence and modesty.”
This sounded terribly hard.
“I _will_ be,” said Emily, suddenly determining to be heroic, like thegirl in the stories she had read. “Perhaps it won’t be so very hardafter all, Aunt Elizabeth,”--Emily happened at this point to recalla speech she had heard her father use once, and thought this a goodopportunity to work it in--“because, you know, God is good and thedevil might be worse.”
Poor Aunt Elizabeth! To have a speech like that fired at her in thedarkness of the night from that unwelcome little interloper into herorderly life and peaceful bed! Was it any wonder that for a momentor so she was too paralyzed to reply! Then she exclaimed in tones ofhorror,
“Emily, _never_ say that again.”
“All right,” said Emily meekly. “But,” she added defiantly under herbreath, “I’ll go on thinking it.”
“And now,” said Aunt Elizabeth, “I want to say that I am not in thehabit of talking all night if you are. I tell you to go to sleep, and I_expect_ you to obey me. Good-night.”
The tone of Aunt Elizabeth’s good-night would have spoiled the bestnight in the world. But Emily lay very still and sobbed no more, thoughthe noiseless tears trickled down her cheeks in the darkness for sometime. She lay so still that Aunt Elizabeth imagined she was asleep andwent to sleep herself.
“I wonder if anybody in the world is awake but me,” thought Emily,feeling a sickening loneliness. “If I only had Saucy Sal here! Sheisn’t so cuddly as Mike but she’d be better than nothing. I wonderwhere she is. I wonder if they gave her any supper.”
Aunt Elizabeth had handed Sal’s basket to Cousin Jimmy with animpatient, “Here--look to this cat,” and Jimmy had carried it off.Where had he put it? Perhaps Saucy Sal would get out and go home--Emilyhad heard cats always went back home. She wished _she_ could get outand go home--she pictured herself and her cat running eagerly alongthe dark, starlit roads to the little house in the hollow--back to thebirches and Adam-and-Eve and Mike, and the old wing-chair and her dearlittle cot and the open window where the Wind Woman sang to her and atdawn one could see the blue of the mist on the homeland hills.
“Will it ever be morning?” thought Emily. “Perhaps things won’t be sobad in the morning.”
And then--she heard the Wind Woman at the window--she heard the little,low, whispering murmur of the June night breeze--cooing, friendly,lovesome.
“Oh, you’re out there, are you, dearest one?” she whispered, stretchingout her arms. “Oh, I’m so glad to hear you. You’re such company, WindWoman. I’m not lonesome any more. And the flash came, too! I was afraidit might never come at New Moon.”
Her soul suddenly escaped from the bondage of Aunt Elizabeth’s stuffyfeather-bed and gloomy canopy and sealed windows. She was out in theopen with the Wind Woman and the other gipsies of the night--thefireflies, the moths, the brooks, the clouds. Far and wide shewandered in enchanted reverie until she coasted the shore of dreams andfell soundly asleep on the fat, hard pillow, while the Wind Woman sangsoftly and luringly in the vines that clustered over New Moon.



CHAPTER VII
THE BOOK OF YESTERDAY

That first Saturday and Sunday at New Moon always stood out in Emily’smemory as a very wonderful time, so crowded was it with new andgenerally delightful impressions. If it be true that we “count timeby heart throbs” Emily lived two years in it instead of two days.Everything was fascinating from the moment she came down the long,polished staircase into the square hall that was filled with a soft,rosy light coming through the red glass panes of the front door. Emilygazed through the panes delightedly. What a strange, fascinating, redworld she beheld, with a weird red sky that looked, she thought, as ifit belonged to the Day of Judgment.
There was a certain charm about the old house which Emily felt keenlyand responded to, although she was too young to understand it. It was ahouse which aforetime had had vivid brides and mothers and wives, andthe atmosphere of their loves and lives still hung around it, not yetbanished by the old-maidishness of the régime of Elizabeth and Laura.
“Why--I’m going to _love_ New Moon,” thought Emily, quite amazed at theidea.
Aunt Laura was setting the breakfast table in the kitchen, which seemedquite bright and jolly in the glow of morning sunshine. Even theblack hole in the ceiling had ceased to be spookish and become onlya commonplace entrance to the kitchen loft. And on the red-sandstonedoorstep Saucy Sal was sitting, preening her fur as contentedly asif she had lived at New Moon all her life. Emily did not know it,but Sal had already drunk deep the delight of battle with her peersthat morning and taught the barn cats their place once and for all.Cousin Jimmy’s big yellow Tom had got a fearful drubbing, and wasminus several bits of his anatomy, while a stuck-up, black lady-cat,who fancied herself considerably, had made up her mind that if thatgrey-and-white, narrow-faced interloper from goodness knew where wasgoing to stay at New Moon, _she_ was not.
Emily gathered Sal up in her arms and kissed her joyously, to thehorror of Aunt Elizabeth, who was coming across the platform from thecook-house with a plate of sizzling bacon in her hands.
“Don’t ever let me see you kissing a cat again,” she ordered.
“Oh, all right,” agreed Emily cheerfully. “I’ll only kiss her when youdon’t see me after this.”
“I don’t want any of your pertness, miss. You are not to kiss cats atall.”
“But, Aunt Elizabeth, I didn’t kiss her on her mouth, _of course_. Ijust kissed her between her ears. It’s nice--won’t you just try it foronce and see for yourself?”
“That will do, Emily. You have said quite enough.” And Aunt Elizabethsailed on into the kitchen majestically, leaving Emily momentarilywretched. She felt that she had offended Aunt Elizabeth, and she hadn’tthe least notion why or how.
But the scene before her was too interesting to worry long over AuntElizabeth. Delicious smells were coming from the cook-house--a little,slant-roofed building at the corner where the big cooking-stove wasplaced in summer. It was thickly overgrown with hop vines, as most ofthe New Moon buildings were. To the right was the “new” orchard, verywonderful now in blossom, but a rather commonplace spot after all,since Cousin Jimmy cultivated it in most up-to-date fashion and hadgrain growing in the wide spaces between the straight rows of treesthat looked all alike. But on the other side of the barn lane, justbehind the well, was the “old orchard,” where Cousin Jimmy said thecolumbines grew and which seemed to be a delightful place where treeshad come up at their own sweet will, and grown into individual shapesand sizes, where blue-eyed ivy twined about their roots and wild-briarroses rioted over the grey paling fence. Straight ahead, closing thevista between the orchards, was a little slope covered with huge whitebirches, among which were the big New Moon barns, and beyond the neworchard a little, lovable red road looped lightly up and up, over ahill, until it seemed to touch the vivid blue of the sky.
Cousin Jimmy came down from the barns, carrying brimming pails ofmilk, and Emily ran with him to the dairy behind the cook-house. Sucha delightful spot she had never seen or imagined. It was a snow-whitelittle building in a clump of tall balm-of-gileads. Its grey roof wasdotted over with cushions of moss like fat green-velvet mice. You wentdown six sandstone steps, with ferns crowding about them, and opened awhite door with a glass panel in it, and went down three more steps.And then you were in a clean, earthy-smelling, damp, cool place withan earthen floor and windows screened by the delicate emerald of younghop-vines, and broad wooden shelves all around, whereon stood wide,shallow pans of glossy brown ware, full of milk coated over with creamso rich that it was positively yellow.
Aunt Laura was waiting for them and she strained the milk into emptypans and then skimmed some of the full ones. Emily thought skimming wasa lovely occupation and longed to try her hand at it. She also longedto sit right down and write a description of that dear dairy; butalas, there was no account book; still, she could write it in her head.She squatted down on a little three-legged stool in a dim corner andproceeded to do it, sitting so still that Jimmy and Laura forgot herand went away and later had to hunt for her a quarter of an hour. Thisdelayed breakfast and made Aunt Elizabeth very cross. But Emily hadfound just the right sentence to define the clear yet dim green lightthat filled the dairy and was so happy over it that she didn’t mindAunt Elizabeth’s black looks a bit.
After breakfast Aunt Elizabeth informed Emily that henceforth it wouldbe one of her duties to drive the cows to pasture every morning.
“Jimmy has no hired man just now and it will save him a few minutes.”
“And don’t be afraid,” added Aunt Laura, “the cows know the way so wellthey’ll go of themselves. You have only to follow and shut the gates.”
“I’m not afraid,” said Emily.
But she was. She knew nothing about cows; still, she was determinedthat the Murrays should not suspect a Starr was scared. So, her heartbeating like a trip-hammer, she sallied valiantly forth and found thatwhat Aunt Laura had said was true and cows were not such ferociousanimals after all. They went gravely on ahead and she had only tofollow, through the old orchard and then through the scrub maple growthbeyond, along a twisted ferny path where the Wind Woman was purring andpeeping around the maple clumps.
Emily loitered by the pasture gate until her eager eyes had taken inall the geography of the landscape. The old pasture ran before her ina succession of little green bosoms right down to the famous BlairWater--an almost perfectly round pond, with grassy, sloping, treelessmargins. Beyond it was the Blair Water valley, filled with homesteads,and further out the great sweep of the white-capped gulf. It seemed toEmily’s eyes a charming land of green shadows and blue waters. Downin one corner of the pasture, walled off by an old stone dyke, was thelittle private graveyard where the dead-and-gone Murrays were buried.Emily wanted to go and explore it, but was afraid to trust herself inthe pasture.
“I’ll go as soon as I get better acquainted with the cows,” sheresolved.
Off to the right, on the crest of a steep little hill, covered withyoung birches and firs, was a house that puzzled and intrigued Emily.It was grey and weather-worn, but it didn’t look old. It had never beenfinished; the roof was shingled but the sides were not, and the windowswere boarded over. Why had it never been finished? And it was meant tobe such a pretty little house--a house you could love--a house wherethere would be nice chairs and cozy fires and bookcases and lovely,fat, purry cats and unexpected corners; then and there she named it theDisappointed House, and many an hour thereafter did she spend finishingthat house, furnishing it as it should be furnished, and inventing theproper people and animals to live in it.
To the left of the pasture field was another house of a quite differenttype--a big, old house, tangled over with vines, flat-roofed, withmansard windows, and a general air of indifference and neglect aboutit. A large, untidy lawn, overgrown with unpruned shrubs and trees,straggled right down to the pond, where enormous willows drooped overthe water. Emily decided that she would ask Cousin Jimmy about thesehouses when she got a good chance.
She felt that, before she went back, she must slip along the pasturefence and explore a certain path which she saw entering the grove ofspruce and maple further down. She did--and found that it led straightinto Fairyland,--along the bank of a wide, lovely brook--a wild, dear,little path with lady-ferns beckoning and blowing along it, the shyestof elfin June-bells under the firs, and little whims of loveliness atevery curve. She breathed in the tang of fir-balsam and saw the shimmerof gossamers high up in the boughs, and everywhere the frolic of elfinlights and shadows. Here and there the young maple branches interlacedas if to make a screen for dryad faces--Emily knew all about dryads,thanks to her father--and the great sheets of moss under the trees weremeet for Titania’s couch.
“This is one of the places where dreams grow,” said Emily happily.
She wished the path might go on forever, but presently it veered awayfrom the brook, and when she had scrambled over a mossy, old boardfence she found herself in the “front-garden” of New Moon, where CousinJimmy was pruning some spirea bushes.
“Oh, Cousin Jimmy, I’ve found the dearest little road,” said Emilybreathlessly.
“Coming up through Lofty John’s bush?”
“Isn’t it our bush?” asked Emily, rather disappointed.
“No, but it ought to be. Fifty years ago Uncle Archibald sold that jogof land to Lofty John’s father--old Mike Sullivan. He built a littlehouse down near the pond and lived there till he quarrelled with UncleArchibald--which wasn’t long, of course. Then he moved his house acrossthe road--and Lofty John lives there now. Elizabeth has tried to buythe land back from him--she’s offered him far more than it’s worth--butLofty John won’t sell--just for spite, seeing that he has a good farmof his own and this piece isn’t much good to him. He only pastures afew young cattle on it through the summer, and what was cleared isall growing up with scrub maple. It’s a thorn in Elizabeth’s side andlikely to be as long as Lofty John nurses his spite.”
“Why is he called Lofty John?”
“Because he’s a high and lofty fellow. But never mind him. I want toshow you round my garden, Emily. It’s mine. Elizabeth bosses the farm;but she lets me run the garden--to make up for pushing me into thewell.”
“_Did_ she do that?”
“Yes. She didn’t mean to, of course. We were just children--I washere on a visit--and the men were putting a new hood on the well andcleaning it. It was open--and we were playing tag around it. I madeElizabeth mad--forget what I said--’twasn’t _hard_ to make her mad,you understand--and she made to give me a bang on the head. I saw itcoming--and stepped back to get out of the way--and down I went, headfirst. Don’t remember anything more about it. There was nothing but mudat the bottom--but my head struck the stones at the side. I was took upfor dead--my head all cut up. Poor Elizabeth was--” Cousin Jimmy shookhis head, as if to intimate that it was impossible to describe how orwhat poor Elizabeth was. “I got about after a while, though--prettynear as good as new. Folks say I’ve never been quite right since--butthey only say that because I’m a poet, and because nothing ever worriesme. Poets are so scarce in Blair Water folks don’t understand them, andmost people worry so much, they think you’re not right if you don’tworry.”
“Won’t you recite some of your poetry to me, Cousin Jimmy?” asked Emilyeagerly.
“When the spirit moves me I will. It’s no use to ask me when the spiritdon’t move me.”
“But how am I to know when the spirit moves you, Cousin Jimmy?”
“I’ll begin of my own accord to recite my compositions. But I’ll tellyou this--the spirit generally moves me when I’m boiling the pigs’potatoes in the fall. Remember that and be around.”
“Why don’t you write your poetry down?”
“Paper’s too scarce at New Moon. Elizabeth has some pet economies andwriting paper of any kind is one of them.”
“But haven’t you any money of your own, Cousin Jimmy?”
“Oh, Elizabeth pays me good wages. But she puts all my money in thebank and just doles out a few dollars to me once in a while. She saysI’m not fit to be trusted with money. When I came here to work forher she paid me my wages at the end of the month and I started forShrewsbury to put it in the bank. Met a tramp on the road--a poor,forlorn creature without a cent. I gave _him_ the money. Why not? _I_had a good home and a steady job and clothes enough to do me for years.I s’pose it was the foolishest thing I ever did--and the nicest. ButElizabeth never got over it. _She’s_ managed my money ever since. Butcome you now, and I’ll show you my garden before I have to go and sowturnips.”
The garden was a beautiful place, well worthy Cousin Jimmy’s pride.It seemed like a garden where no frost could wither or rough windblow--a garden remembering a hundred vanished summers. There was a highhedge of clipped spruce all around it, spaced at intervals by talllombardies. The north side was closed in by a thick grove of spruceagainst which a long row of peonies grew, their great red blossomssplendid against its darkness. One big spruce grew in the center of thegarden and underneath it was a stone bench, made of flat shore stonesworn smooth by long polish of wind and wave. In the southeast cornerwas an enormous clump of lilacs, trimmed into the semblance of onelarge drooping-boughed tree, gloried over with purple. An old summerhouse, covered with vines, filled the southwest corner. And in thenorthwest corner there was a sun-dial of grey stone, placed just wherethe broad red walk that was bordered with striped grass, and picked outwith pink conchs, ran off into Lofty John’s bush. Emily had never seena sun-dial before and hung over it enraptured.
“Your great-great grandfather, Hugh Murray, had that brought out fromthe Old Country,” said Cousin Jimmy. “There isn’t as fine a one in theMaritime Provinces. And Uncle George Murray brought those conchs fromthe Indies. He was a sea-captain.”
Emily looked about her with delight. The garden was lovely and thehouse quite splendid to her childish eyes. It had a big front porchwith Grecian columns. These were thought very elegant in Blair Water,and went far to justify the Murray pride. A schoolmaster had saidthey gave the house a classical air. To be sure, the classical effectwas just now rather smothered in hop vines that rioted over the wholeporch and hung in pale-green festoons above the rows of potted scarletgeraniums that flanked the steps.
Emily’s heart swelled with pride.
“It’s a noble house,” she said.
“And what about my garden?” demanded Cousin Jimmy jealously.
“It’s fit for a queen,” said Emily, gravely and sincerely.
Cousin Jimmy nodded, well pleased, and then a strange sound crept intohis voice and an odd look into his eyes.
“There is a spell woven round this garden. The blight shall spare itand the green worm pass it by. Drought dares not invade it and the raincomes here gently.”
Emily took an involuntary step backward--she almost felt like runningaway. But now Cousin Jimmy was himself again.
“Isn’t this grass about the sun-dial like green velvet? I’ve takensome pains with it, I can tell you. You make yourself at home in thisgarden.” Cousin Jimmy made a splendid gesture. “I confer the freedom ofit upon you. Good-luck to you, and may you find the Lost Diamond.”
“The Lost Diamond?” said Emily wonderingly. What fascinating thing wasthis?
“Never hear the story? I’ll tell it to-morrow--Sunday’s lazy day atNew Moon. I must get off to my turnips now or I’ll have Elizabeth outlooking at me. She won’t say anything--she’ll just _look_. Ever seenthe real Murray look?”
“I guess I saw it when Aunt Ruth pulled me out from under the table,”said Emily ruefully.
“No--no. That was the Ruth Dutton look--spite and malice and alluncharitableness. I hate Ruth Dutton. She laughs at my poetry--notthat she ever hears any of it. The spirit never moves when Ruth isaround. Dunno where they got her. Elizabeth is a crank but she’s soundas a nut, and Laura’s a saint. But Ruth’s worm-eaten. As for theMurray look, you’ll know it when you see it. It’s as well-known as theMurray pride. We’re a darn queer lot--but we’re the finest people everhappened. I’ll tell you all about us to-morrow.”
Cousin Jimmy kept his promise while the aunts were away at church. Ithad been decided in family conclave that Emily was not to go to churchthat day.
“She has nothing suitable to wear,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “By nextSunday we will have her white dress ready.”
Emily was disappointed that she was not to go to church. She had alwaysfound church very interesting on the rare occasions when she got there.It had been too far at Maywood for her father to walk but sometimesEllen Greene’s brother had taken her and Ellen.
“Do you think, Aunt Elizabeth,” she said wistfully, “that God wouldbe much offended if I wore my black dress to church? Of course it’scheap--I think Ellen Greene paid for it herself--but it covers me allup.”
“Little girls who do not understand things should hold their tongues,”said Aunt Elizabeth. “I do not choose that Blair Water people shouldsee my niece in such a dress as that wretched black merino. And ifEllen Greene paid for it we must repay her. You should have told usthat before we came away from Maywood. No, you are not going to churchto-day. You can wear the black dress to school to-morrow. We can coverit up with an apron.”
Emily resigned herself with a sigh of disappointment to staying home;but it was very pleasant after all. Cousin Jimmy took her for a walk tothe pond, showed her the graveyard and opened the book of yesterday forher.
“Why are all the Murrays buried here?” asked Emily. “Is it reallybecause they are too good to be buried with common people?”
“No--no, pussy. We don’t carry our pride as far as _that_. When oldHugh Murray settled at New Moon there was nothing much but woods formiles and no graveyards nearer than Charlottetown. That’s why the oldMurrays were buried here--and later on we kept it up because we wantedto lie with our own, here on the green, green banks of the old BlairWater.”
“That sounds like a line out of a poem, Cousin Jimmy,” said Emily.
“So it is--out of one of my poems.”
“I kind of like the idea of a ’sclusive burying-ground like this,” saidEmily decidedly, looking around her approvingly at the velvet grasssloping down to the fairy-blue pond, the neat walks, the well-keptgraves.
Cousin Jimmy chuckled.
“And yet they say you ain’t a Murray,” he said. “Murray and Byrd andStarr--and a dash of Shipley to boot, or Cousin Jimmy Murray is muchmistaken.”
“Shipley?”
“Yes--Hugh Murray’s wife--your great-great-grandmother--was aShipley--an Englishwoman. Ever hear of how the Murrays came to NewMoon?”
“No.”
“They were bound for Quebec--hadn’t any notion of coming to P. E. I.They had a long rough voyage and water got scarce, so the captain ofthe _New Moon_ put in here to get some. Mary Murray had nearly diedof sea-sickness coming out--never seemed to get her sea-legs--so thecaptain, being sorry for her, told her she could go ashore with themen and feel solid ground under her for an hour or so. Very gladly shewent and when she got to shore she said, ‘Here I stay.’ And stay shedid; nothing could budge her; old Hugh--he was young Hugh then, ofcourse--coaxed and stormed and raged and argued--and even cried, I’vebeen told--but Mary wouldn’t be moved. In the end he gave in and hadhis belongings landed and stayed, too. So that is how the Murrays cameto P. E. Island.”
“I’m glad it happened like that,” said Emily.
“So was old Hugh in the long run. And yet it rankled, Emily--itrankled. He never forgave his wife with a whole heart. Her grave isover there in the corner--that one with the flat red stone. Go you andlook at what he had put on it.”
Emily ran curiously over. The big flat stone was inscribed with one ofthe long, discursive epitaphs of an older day. But beneath the epitaphwas no scriptural verse or pious psalm. Clear and distinct, in spite ofage and lichen, ran the line, “Here I stay.”
“_That’s_ how he got even with her,” said Cousin Jimmy. “He was a goodhusband to her--and she was a good wife and bore him a fine family--andhe never was the same after her death. But that rankled in him until ithad to come out.”
Emily gave a little shiver. Somehow, the idea of that grim old ancestorwith his undying grudge against his nearest and dearest was ratherterrifying.
“I’m glad I’m only _half_ Murray,” she said to herself. Aloud--“Fathertold me it was a Murray tradition not to carry spite past the grave.”
“So ’tis now--but it took its rise from this very thing. His familywere so horrified at it, you see. It made considerable of a scandal.Some folks twisted it round to mean that old Hugh didn’t believe in theresurrection, and there was talk of the session taking it up, but aftera while the talk died away.”
Emily skipped over to another lichen-grown stone.
“Elizabeth Burnley--who was she, Cousin Jimmy?”
“Old William Murray’s wife. He was Hugh’s brother, and came out herefive years after Hugh did. His wife was a great beauty and had been abelle in the Old Country. She didn’t like the P. E. Island woods. Shewas homesick, Emily--scandalous homesick. For weeks after she camehere she wouldn’t take off her bonnet--just walked the floor in it,demanding to be taken back home.”
“Didn’t she take it off when she went to bed?” asked Emily.
“Dunno if she did go to bed. Anyway, William wouldn’t takeher back home so in time she took off her bonnet and resignedherself. Her daughter married Hugh’s son, so Elizabeth was yourgreat-great-grandmother.”
Emily looked down at the sunken green grave and wondered if anyhomesick dreams haunted Elizabeth Burnley’s slumber of a hundred years.
“It’s dreadful to be homesick--_I_ know,” she thought sympathetically.
“Little Stephen Murray is buried over there,” said Cousin Jimmy.“His was the first marble stone in the burying-ground. He was yourgrandfather’s brother--died when he was twelve. He has,” said CousinJimmy solemnly, “become a Murray tradition.”
“Why?”
“He was so beautiful and clever and good. He hadn’t a fault--so ofcourse he couldn’t live. They say there never was such a handsome childin the connection. And lovable--everybody loved him. He has been deadfor ninety years--not a Murray living to-day ever saw him--and yetwe talk about him at family gatherings--he’s more real than lots ofliving people. So you see, Emily, he must have been an extraordinarychild--but it ended in that--” Cousin Jimmy waved his hand towards thegrassy grave and the white, prim headstone.
“I wonder,” thought Emily, “if any one will remember _me_ ninety yearsafter I’m dead.”
“This old yard is nearly full,” reflected Cousin Jimmy. “There’s justroom in yonder corner for Elizabeth and Laura--and me. None for you,Emily.”
“I don’t want to be buried here,” flashed Emily. “I think it’s splendidto have a graveyard like this in the family--but _I_ am going to beburied in Charlottetown graveyard with Father and Mother. But there’sone thing worries me Cousin Jimmy, do _you_ think I’m likely to die ofconsumption?”
Cousin Jimmy looked judicially down into her eyes.
“No,” he said, “no, Miss Puss. You’ve got enough life in _you_ to carryyou far. You aren’t meant for death.”
“I feel that, too,” said Emily, nodding. “And now, Cousin Jimmy, _why_is that house over there disappointed?”
“Which one?--oh, Fred Clifford’s house. Fred Clifford began to buildthat house thirty years ago. He was to be married and his lady pickedout the plan. And when the house was just as far along as you seeshe jilted him, Emily--right in the face of day she jilted him.Never another nail was driven in the house. Fred went out to BritishColumbia. He’s living there yet--married and happy. But he won’t sellthat lot to any one--so I reckon he feels the sting yet.”
“I’m so sorry for that house. I _wish_ it had been finished. It _wants_to be--even yet it _wants_ to be.”
“Well, I reckon it never will. Fred had a bit of Shipley in him, too,you see. One of old Hugh’s girls was his grandmother. And DoctorBurnley up there in the big grey house has more than a bit.”
“Is he a relation of ours, too, Cousin Jimmy?”
“Forty-second cousin. Way back he had a cousin of Mary Shipley’s for agreat-something. That was in the Old Country--his forebears came outhere after we did. He’s a good doctor but an odd stick--odder by farthan I am, Emily, and yet nobody ever says he’s not all there. Can youaccount for that? _He_ doesn’t believe in God--and _I_ am not such afool as that.”
“Not in _any_ God?”
“Not in any God. He’s an infidel, Emily. And he’s bringing his littlegirl up the same way, which _I_ think is a shame, Emily,” said CousinJimmy confidentially.
“Doesn’t her mother teach her things?”
“Her mother is--dead,” answered Cousin Jimmy, with a little oddhesitation. “Dead these ten years,” he added in a firmer tone. “IlseBurnley is a great girl--hair like daffodils and eyes like yellowdiamonds.”
“Oh, Cousin Jimmy, you promised you’d tell me about the Lost Diamond,”cried Emily eagerly.
“To be sure--to be sure. Well, it’s there--somewhere in or about theold summer-house, Emily. Fifty years ago Edward Murray and his wifecame here from Kingsport for a visit. A great lady she was, and wearingsilks and diamonds like a queen, though no beauty. She had a ring onwith a stone in it that cost two hundred pounds, Emily. That was abig lot of money to be wearing on one wee woman-finger, wasn’t it? Itsparkled on her white hand as she held her dress going up the steps ofthe summer house; but when she came down the steps it was gone.”
“And was it _never_ found?” asked Emily breathlessly.
“Never--and for no lack of searching. Edward Murray wanted to have thehouse pulled down--but Uncle Archibald wouldn’t hear of it--because hehad built it for his bride. The two brothers quarrelled over it andwere never good friends again. Everybody in the connection has takena spell hunting for the diamond. Most folks think it fell out of thesummer house among the flowers or shrubs. But I know better, Emily. Iknow Miriam Murray’s diamond is somewhere about that old house yet. Onmoonlit nights, Emily, I’ve seen it glinting--glinting and beckoning.But never in the same place--and when you go to it--it’s gone, and yousee it laughing at you from somewhere else.”
Again there was that eerie, indefinable something in Cousin Jimmy’svoice or look that gave Emily a sudden crinkly feeling in her spine.But she loved the way he talked to her, as if she were grown-up; andshe loved the beautiful land around her; and, in spite of the ache forher father and the house in the hollow which persisted all the time andhurt her so much at night that her pillow was wet with secret tears,she was beginning to be a little glad again in sunset and bird songand early white stars, in moonlit nights and singing winds. She knewlife was going to be wonderful here--wonderful and interesting, whatwith out-door cook-houses and cream-girdled dairies and pond pathsand sun-dials, and Lost Diamonds, and Disappointed Houses and men whodidn’t believe in _any_ God--not even Ellen Greene’s God. Emily hopedshe would soon see Dr. Burnley. She was very curious to see what aninfidel looked like. And she had already quite made up her mind thatshe would find the Lost Diamond.



CHAPTER VIII
TRIAL BY FIRE

Aunt Elizabeth drove Emily to school the next morning. Aunt Laura hadthought that, since there was only a month before vacation, it was notworth while for Emily to “start school.” But Aunt Elizabeth did not yetfeel comfortable with a small niece skipping around New Moon, pokinginto everything insatiably, and was resolved that Emily must go toschool to get her out of the way. Emily herself, always avid for newexperiences, was quite keen to go, but for all that she was seethingwith rebellion as they drove along. Aunt Elizabeth had produced aterrible gingham apron and an equally terrible gingham sunbonnet fromsomewhere in the New Moon garret, and made Emily put them on. The apronwas a long sack-like garment, high in the neck, with _sleeves_. Thosesleeves were the crowning indignity. Emily had never seen any littlegirl wearing an apron with sleeves. She rebelled to the point of tearsover wearing it, but Aunt Elizabeth was not going to have any nonsense.Emily saw the Murray look then; and when she saw it she buttoned herrebellious feelings tightly up in her soul and let Aunt Elizabeth putthe apron on her.
“It was one of your mother’s aprons when she was a little girl, Emily,”said Aunt Laura comfortingly, and rather sentimentally.
“Then,” said Emily, uncomforted and unsentimental, “I don’t wonder sheran away with Father when she grew up.”
Aunt Elizabeth finished buttoning the apron and gave Emily a none toogentle push away from her.
“Put on your sunbonnet,” she ordered.
“Oh, please, Aunt Elizabeth, don’t make me wear that horrid thing.”
Aunt Elizabeth, wasting no further words, picked up the bonnet and tiedit on Emily’s head. Emily had to yield. But from the depths of thesunbonnet issued a voice, defiant though tremulous.
“Anyway, Aunt Elizabeth, you can’t boss God,” it said.
Aunt Elizabeth was too cross to speak all the way to the schoolhouse.She introduced Emily to Miss Brownell, and drove away. School wasalready “in,” so Emily hung her sunbonnet on the porch nail and went tothe desk Miss Brownell assigned her. She had already made up her mindthat she did not like Miss Brownell and never would like her.
Miss Brownell had the reputation in Blair Water of being a fineteacher--due mainly to the fact that she was a strict disciplinarianand kept excellent “order.” She was a thin, middle-aged person with acolourless face, prominent teeth, most of which she showed when shelaughed, and cold, watchful grey eyes--colder even than Aunt Ruth’s.Emily felt as if those merciless agate eyes saw clean through her tothe core of her sensitive little soul. Emily could be fearless enoughon occasion; but in the presence of a nature which she instinctivelyfelt to be hostile to hers she shrank away in something that was morerepulsion than fear.
She was a target for curious glances all the morning. The Blair Waterschool was large and there were at least twenty little girls of abouther own age. Emily looked back curiously at them all and thought theway they whispered to each other behind hands and books when theylooked at her very ill-mannered. She felt suddenly unhappy and homesickand lonesome--she wanted her father and her old home and the dearthings she loved.
“The New Moon girl is crying,” whispered a black-eyed girl across theaisle. And then came a cruel little giggle.
“What is the matter with you, Emily?” said Miss Brownell suddenly andaccusingly.
Emily was silent. She could not tell Miss Brownell what was the matterwith her--especially when Miss Brownell used such a tone.
“When I ask one of my pupils a question, Emily, I am accustomed tohaving an answer. Why are you crying?”
There was another giggle from across the aisle. Emily lifted miserableeyes and in her extremity fell back on a phrase of her father’s.
“It is a matter that concerns only myself,” she said.
A red spot suddenly appeared in Miss Brownell’s sallow cheek. Her eyesgleamed with cold fire.
“You will remain in during recess as a punishment for yourimpertinence,” she said--but she left Emily alone the rest of the day.
Emily did not in the least mind staying in at recess, for, acutelysensitive to her environment as she was, she realized that, forsome reason she could not fathom, the atmosphere of the school wasantagonistic. The glances cast at her were not only curious butill-natured. She did not want to go out to the playground with thosegirls. She did not want to go to school in Blair Water. But she wouldnot cry any more. She sat erect and kept her eyes on her book. Suddenlya soft, malignant hiss came across the aisle.
“Miss Pridey--Miss Pridey!”
Emily looked across at the girl. Large, steady, purplish-grey eyesgazed into beady, twinkling, black ones--gazed unquailingly--withsomething in them that cowed and compelled. The black eyes wavered andfell, their owner covering her retreat with another giggle and toss ofher short braid of hair.
“I can master _her_,” thought Emily, with a thrill of triumph.
But there is strength in numbers and at noon hour Emily found herselfstanding alone on the playground facing a crowd of unfriendly faces.Children can be the most cruel creatures alive. They have the herdinstinct of prejudice against any outsider, and they are merciless inits indulgence. Emily was a stranger and one of the proud Murrays--twocounts against her. And there was about her, small and ginghamed andsunbonneted as she was, a certain reserve and dignity and fineness thatthey resented. And they resented the level way she looked at them, withthat disdainful face under cloudy black hair, instead of being shy anddrooping as became an interloper on probation.
“You are a proud one,” said Black-eyes. “Oh, my, you may have buttonedboots, but you are living on charity.”
Emily had not wanted to put on the buttoned boots. She wanted to gobarefoot as she had always done in summer. But Aunt Elizabeth had toldher that no child from New Moon had ever gone barefoot to school.
“Oh, just look at the baby apron,” laughed another girl, with a head ofchestnut curls.
Now Emily flushed. This was indeed the vulnerable point in her armour.Delighted at her success in drawing blood the curled one tried again.
“Is that your grandmother’s sunbonnet?”
There was a chorus of giggles.
“Oh, she wears a sunbonnet to save her complexion,” said a bigger girl.“That’s the Murray pride. The Murrays are rotten with pride, my mothersays.”
“You’re awful ugly,” said a fat, squat little miss, nearly as broad asshe was long. “Your ears look like a cat’s.”
“You needn’t be so proud,” said Black-eyes. “Your kitchen ceiling isn’tplastered even.”
“And your Cousin Jimmy is an idiot,” said Chestnut-curls.
“He isn’t!” cried Emily. “He has more sense than any of you. You cansay what you like about me but you are not going to _insult my family_.If you say one more word about them I’ll look you over with the evileye.”
Nobody understood what this threat meant, but that made it all the moreeffective. It produced a brief silence. Then the baiting began again ina different form.
“Can you sing?” asked a thin, freckled girl, who yet contrived to bevery pretty in spite of thinness and freckles.
“No,” said Emily.
“Can you dance?”
“No.”
“Can you sew?”
“No.”
“Can you cook?”
“No.”
“Can you knit lace?”
“No.”
“Can you crochet?”
“No.”
“Then what _can_ you do?” said the freckled-one in a contemptuous tone.
“I can write poetry,” said Emily, without in the least meaning tosay it. But at that instant she knew she _could_ write poetry. Andwith this queer unreasonable conviction came--the flash! Right there,surrounded by hostility and suspicion, fighting alone for her standing,without backing or advantage, came the wonderful moment when soulseemed to cast aside the bonds of flesh and spring upward to thestars. The rapture and delight on Emily’s face amazed and enraged herfoes. They thought it a manifestation of Murray pride in an uncommonaccomplishment.
“You lie,” said Black-eyes bluntly.
“A Starr does not lie,” retorted Emily. The flash was gone, but itsuplift remained. She looked them all over with a cool detachment thatquelled them temporarily.
“Why don’t you like me?” she asked directly.
There was no reply. Emily looked straight at Chestnut-curls andrepeated her question. Chestnut-curls felt herself compelled to answerit.
“Because you ain’t a bit like us,” she muttered.
“I wouldn’t want to be,” said Emily scornfully.
“Oh, my, you are one of the Chosen People,” mocked Black-eyes.
“Of course I am,” retorted Emily.
She walked away to the schoolhouse, conqueror in that battle.
But the forces against her were not so easily cowed. There was muchwhispering and plotting after she had gone in, a conference with someof the boys, and a handing over of bedizened pencils and chews of gumfor value received.
An agreeable sense of victory and the afterglow of the flash carriedEmily through the afternoon in spite of the fact that Miss Brownellridiculed her for her mistakes in spelling. Miss Brownell was very fondof ridiculing her pupils. All the girls in the class giggled exceptone who had not been there in the morning and was consequently at thetail. Emily had been wondering who she was. She was as unlike the restof the girls as Emily herself, but in a totally different style. Shewas tall, oddly dressed in an overlong dress of faded, striped print,and barefooted. Her thick hair, cut short, fluffed out all around herhead in a bushy wave that seemed to be of brilliant spun gold; and herglowing eyes were of a brown so light and translucent as to be almostamber. Her mouth was large, and she had a saucy, pronounced chin.Pretty she might not be called, but her face was so vivid and mobilethat Emily could not drag her fascinated eyes from it. And she was theonly girl in class who did not, sometime through the lesson, get a barbof sarcasm from Miss Brownell, though she made as many mistakes as therest of them.
At recess one of the girls came up to Emily with a box in her hand.Emily knew that she was Rhoda Stuart and thought her very pretty andsweet. Rhoda had been in the crowd around her at the noon hour but shehad not said anything. She was dressed in crispy pink gingham; she hadsmooth, lustrous braids of sugar-brown hair, big blue eyes, a rose-budmouth, doll-like features and a sweet voice. If Miss Brownell could besaid to have a favourite it was Rhoda Stuart, and she seemed generallypopular in her own set and much petted by the older girls.
“Here is a present for you,” she said sweetly.
Emily took the box unsuspectingly. Rhoda’s smile would have disarmedany suspicion. For a moment Emily was happily anticipant as sheremoved the cover. Then with a shriek she flung the box from her, andstood pale and trembling from head to foot. There was a snake in thebox--whether dead or alive she did not know and did not care. For anysnake Emily had a horror and repulsion she could not overcome. The verysight of one almost paralyzed her.
A chorus of giggles ran around the porch.
“Before I’d be so scared of an old dead snake!” scoffed Black-eyes.
“Can you write poetry about _that_?” giggled Chestnut-curls.
“I _hate_ you--I hate you!” cried Emily. “You are mean, hateful girls!”
“Calling names isn’t ladylike,” said the Freckled-one. “I thought aMurray would be too grand for that.”
“If you come to school to-morrow, _Miss_ Starr,” said Black-eyesdeliberately, “we are going to take that snake and put it around yourneck.”
“Let me see you do it!” cried a clear, ringing voice. Into their midstwith a bound came the girl with amber eyes and short hair. “Just let me_see_ you do it, Jennie Strang!”
“This isn’t any of your business, Ilse Burnley,” muttered Jennie,sullenly.
“Oh, isn’t it? Don’t you sass me, Piggy-eyes.” Ilse walked up to theretreating Jennie and shook a sunburned fist in her face. “If I catchyou teasing Emily Starr to-morrow with that snake again I’ll take _it_by the tail and _you_ by _your_ tail, and slash you across the facewith it. Mind that, Piggy-eyes. Now you go and pick up that precioussnake of yours and throw it down on the ash pile.”
Jennie actually went and did it. Ilse faced the others.
“Clear out, all of you, and leave the New Moon girl alone after this,”she said. “If I hear of any more meddling and sneaking I’ll slit yourthroats, and rip out your hearts and tear your eyes out. Yes, and I’llcut off your ears and wear them pinned on my dress!”
Cowed by these ferocious threats, or by something in Ilse’spersonality, Emily’s persecutors drifted away. Ilse turned to Emily.
“Don’t mind them,” she said contemptuously. “They’re jealous of you,that’s all--jealous because you live at New Moon and ride in a fringedtop-buggy and wear buttoned boots. You smack their mugs if they giveyou any more of their jaw.”
Ilse vaulted the fence and tore off into the maple bush without anotherglance at Emily. Only Rhoda Stuart remained.
“Emily, I’m awful sorry,” she said, rolling her big blue eyesappealingly. “I didn’t know there was a snake in that box, cross myheart I didn’t. The girls just told me it was a present for you. You’renot mad at me, are you? Because I like you.”
Emily had been “mad” and hurt and outraged. But this little bit offriendliness melted her instantly. In a moment she and Rhoda had theirarms around each other, parading across the playground.
“I’m going to ask Miss Brownell to let you sit with me,” said Rhoda. “Iused to sit with Annie Gregg but she’s moved away. You’d like to sitwith me, wouldn’t you?”
“I’d love it,” said Emily warmly. She was as happy as she had beenmiserable. Here was the friend of her dreams. Already she worshippedRhoda.
“We _ought_ to sit together,” said Rhoda importantly. “We belong to thetwo best families in Blair Water. Do you know that if my father had hisrights he would be on the throne of England?”
“England!” said Emily, too amazed to be anything but an echo.
“Yes. We are descended from the kings of Scotland,” said Rhoda. “So ofcourse we don’t ’sociate with everybody. My father keeps store and I’mtaking music lessons. Is your Aunt Elizabeth going to give you musiclessons?”
“I don’t know.”
“She ought to. She is very rich, isn’t she?”
“I don’t know,” said Emily again. She wished Rhoda would not ask suchquestions. Emily thought it was hardly good manners. But surely adescendant of the Stuart kings ought to know the rules of breeding, ifanybody did.
“She’s got an awful temper, hasn’t she?” asked Rhoda.
“No, she hasn’t!” cried Emily.
“Well, she nearly killed your Cousin Jimmy in one of her rages,” saidRhoda. “That’s true--Mother told me. Why doesn’t your Aunt Laura getmarried? Has she got a beau? What wages does your Aunt Elizabeth payyour Cousin Jimmy?”
“I don’t know.”
“Well,” said Rhoda, rather disappointedly. “I suppose you haven’tbeen at New Moon long enough to find things out. But it must be verydifferent from what you’ve been used to, I guess. Your father was aspoor as a church mouse, wasn’t he?”
“My father was a very, _very_ rich man,” said Emily deliberately.
Rhoda stared.
“I thought he hadn’t a cent.”
“Neither he had. But people can be rich without money.”
“I don’t see how. But anyhow, _you’ll_ be rich some day--your AuntElizabeth will likely leave you all her money, Mother says. So I don’tcare if you _are_ living on charity--I love you and I’m going to stickup for you. Have you got a beau, Emily?”
“No,” cried Emily, blushing violently and quite scandalized at theidea. “Why, I’m only eleven.”
“Oh, everybody in our class has a beau. Mine is Teddy Kent. I shookhands with him after I’d counted nine stars for nine nights withoutmissing a night. If you do that the first boy you shake hands withafterwards is to be your beau. But it’s awful hard to do. It took meall winter. Teddy wasn’t in school to-day--he’s been sick all June.He’s the best-looking boy in Blair Water. You’ll have to have a beau,too, Emily.”
“I won’t,” declared Emily angrily. “I don’t know a thing about beauxand I won’t have one.”
Rhoda tossed her head.
“Oh, I s’pose you think there’s nobody good enough for you, living atNew Moon. Well, you won’t be able to play Clap-in-and-clap-out if youhaven’t a beau.”
Emily knew nothing of the mysteries of Clap-in-and-clap-out, and didn’tcare. Anyway, she wasn’t going to have a beau and she repeated this insuch decided tones that Rhoda deemed it wise to drop the subject.
Emily was rather glad when the bell rang. Miss Brownell granted Rhoda’srequest quite graciously and Emily transferred her goods and chattelsto Rhoda’s seat. Rhoda whispered a good deal during the last hour andEmily got scolded for it but did not mind.
“I’m going to have a birthday party the first week in July, and I’mgoing to invite you, if your aunts will let you come. I’m not going tohave Ilse Burnley though.”
“Don’t you like her?”
“No. She’s an awful tomboy. And then her father is an infidel. And so’sshe. She always spells ‘God’ with a little ‘g’ in her dictation. MissBrownell scolds her for it but she does it right along. Miss Brownellwon’t whip _her_ because she’s setting her cap for Dr. Burnley. But Masays she won’t get him because he hates women. _I_ don’t think it’sproper to ’sociate with such people. Ilse is an awful wild queer girland has an awful temper. So has her father. She doesn’t chum withanybody. Isn’t it ridic’lus the way she wears her hair? _You_ ought tohave a bang, Emily. They’re all the rage and you’d look well with onebecause you’ve such a high forehead. It would make a real beauty ofyou. My, but you have lovely hair, and your hands are just lovely. Allthe Murrays have pretty hands. And you have the _sweetest_ eyes, Emily.”
Emily had never received so many compliments in her life. Rhoda laidflattery on with a trowel. Her head was quite turned and she went homefrom school determined to ask Aunt Elizabeth to cut her hair in a bang.If it would make a beauty of her it must be compassed somehow. And shewould also ask Aunt Elizabeth if she might wear her Venetian beads toschool next day.
“The other girls may _respect_ me more then,” she thought.
She was alone from the crossroads, where she had parted company withRhoda, and she reviewed the events of the day with a feeling that,after all, she had kept the Starr flag flying, except for a temporaryreverse in the matter of the snake. School was very different fromwhat she had expected it to be, but that was the way in life, she hadheard Ellen Greene say, and you just had to make the best of it. Rhodawas a darling; and there was something about Ilse Burnley that oneliked; and as for the rest of the girls Emily got square with themby pretending she saw them all being hanged in a row for frighteningher to death with a snake, and felt no more resentment towards them,although some of the things that had been said to her rankled bitterlyin her heart for many a day. She had no father to tell them to, and noaccount book to write them out in, so she could not exorcise them.
She had no speedy chance to ask for a bang, for there was company atNew Moon and her aunts were busy getting ready an elaborate supper. Butwhen the preserves were brought on Emily snatched the opportunity of alull in the older conversation.
“Aunt Elizabeth,” she said, “can I have a bang?”
Aunt Elizabeth looked her disdain.
“No,” she said, “I do not approve of bangs. Of all the silly fashionsthat have come in now-a-days, bangs are the silliest.”
“Oh, Aunt Elizabeth, _do_ let me have a bang. It would make a beauty ofme,--Rhoda says so.”
“It would take a good deal more than a bang to do that, Emily. We willnot have bangs at New Moon--except on the Molly cows. _They_ are theonly creatures that should wear bangs.”
Aunt Elizabeth smiled triumphantly around the table--Aunt Elizabeth_did_ smile sometimes when she thought she had silenced some smallperson by exquisite ridicule. Emily understood that it was no use tohope for bangs. Loveliness did not lie that way for her. It was mean ofAunt Elizabeth--mean. She heaved a sigh of disappointment and dismissedthe idea for the present. There was something else she wanted to know.
“Why doesn’t Ilse Burnley’s father believe in God?” she asked.
“’Cause of the trick her mother played him,” said Mr. Slade, witha chuckle. Mr. Slade was a fat, jolly-looking old man with bushyhair and whiskers. He had already said some things Emily could notunderstand and which had seemed greatly to embarrass his very lady-likewife.
“What trick did Ilse’s mother play?” asked Emily, all agog withinterest.
Now Aunt Laura looked at Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Elizabeth looked atAunt Laura. Then the latter said:
“Run out and feed the chickens, Emily.”
Emily rose with dignity.
“You might just as well tell me that Ilse’s mother isn’t to be talkedabout and I would obey you. I understand _perfectly_ what you mean,”she said as she left the table.



CHAPTER IX
A SPECIAL PROVIDENCE

Emily was sure on that first day at school that she would never likeit. She must go, she knew, in order to get an education and be ready toearn her own living; but it would always be what Ellen Greene solemnlycalled “a cross.” Consequently Emily felt quite astonished when, aftergoing to school a few days, it dawned upon her that she was likingit. To be sure, Miss Brownell did not improve on acquaintance; butthe other girls no longer tormented her--indeed, to her amazement,they seemed suddenly to forget all that had happened and hailed heras one of themselves. She was admitted to the fellowship of thepack and, although in some occasional tiff she got a dig about babyaprons and Murray pride, there was no more hostility, veiled or open.Besides, Emily was quite able to give “digs” herself, as she learnedmore about the girls and their weak points, and she could give themwith such merciless lucidity and irony that the others soon learnednot to provoke them. Chestnut-curls, whose name was Grace Wells,and the Freckled-one, whose name was Carrie King, and Jennie Strangbecame quite chummy with her, and Jennie sent chews of gum and tissuethumb-papers across the aisle instead of giggles. Emily allowed themall to enter the outer court of her temple of friendship but onlyRhoda was admitted to the inner shrine. As for Ilse Burnley, she didnot appear after that first day. Ilse, so Rhoda said, came to schoolor not, just as she liked. Her father never bothered about her. Emilyalways felt a certain hankering to know more of Ilse, but it did notseem likely to be gratified.
Emily was insensibly becoming happy again. Already she felt as ifshe belonged to this old cradle of her family. She thought a greatdeal about the old Murrays; she liked to picture them revisiting theglimpses of New Moon--Great-grandmother rubbing up her candlesticks andmaking cheeses; Great-aunt Miriam stealing about looking for her losttreasure; homesick Great-great-aunt Elizabeth stalking about in herbonnet; Captain George, the dashing, bronzed sea-captain, coming homewith the spotted shells of the Indies; Stephen, the beloved of all,smiling from its windows; her own mother dreaming of Father--they allseemed as real to her as if she had known them in life.
She still had terrible hours when she was overwhelmed by grief forher father and when all the splendours of New Moon could not stiflethe longing for the shabby little house in the hollow where they hadloved each other so. Then Emily fled to some secret corner and criedher heart out, emerging with red eyes that always seemed to annoy AuntElizabeth. Aunt Elizabeth had become used to having Emily at New Moonbut she had not drawn any nearer to the child. This hurt Emily always;but Aunt Laura and Cousin Jimmy loved her and she had Saucy Sal andRhoda, fields creamy with clover, soft dark trees against amber skies,and the madcap music the Wind Woman made in the firs behind the barnswhen she blew straight up from the gulf; her days became vivid andinteresting, full of little pleasures and delights, like tiny, opening,golden buds on the tree of life. If she could only have had her oldyellow account book, or some equivalent, she could have been fullycontent. She missed it next to her father, and its enforced burning wassomething for which she held Aunt Elizabeth responsible and for whichshe felt she could never wholly forgive her. It did not seem possibleto get any substitute. As Cousin Jimmy had said, writing paper of anykind was scarce at New Moon. Letters were seldom written, and whenthey were a sheet of note-paper sufficed. Emily dared not ask AuntElizabeth for any. There were times when she felt she would burst ifshe couldn’t write out some of the things that came to her. She founda certain safety valve in writing on her slate in school; but thesescribblings had to be rubbed off sooner or later--which left Emily witha sense of loss--and there was always the danger that Miss Brownellwould see them. That, Emily felt, would be unendurable. No strangereyes must behold these sacred productions. Sometimes she let Rhoda readthem, though Rhoda rasped her by giggling over her finest flights.Emily thought Rhoda as near perfection as a human being could be, butgiggling was her fault.
But there is a destiny which shapes the ends of young misses who areborn with the itch for writing tingling in their baby fingertips, andin the fulness of time this destiny gave to Emily the desire of herheart--gave it to her, too, on the very day when she most needed it.That was the day, the ill-starred day, when Miss Brownell elected toshow the fifth class, by example as well as precept, how the _BugleSong_ should be read.
Standing on the platform Miss Brownell, who was not devoid of asuperficial, elocutionary knack, read those three wonderful verses.Emily, who should have been doing a sum in long division, dropped herpencil and listened entranced. She had never heard the _Bugle Song_before--but now she heard it--and _saw_ it--the rose-red splendourfalling on those storied, snowy summits and ruined castles--thelights that never were on land or sea streaming over the lakes--sheheard the wild echoes flying through the purple valleys and the mistypasses--the mere sound of the words seemed to make an exquisite echoin her soul--and when Miss Brownell came to “Horns of elf-land faintlyblowing” Emily trembled with delight. She was snatched out of herself.She forgot everything but the magic of that unequalled line--she sprangfrom her seat, knocking her slate to the floor with a clatter, sherushed up the aisle, she caught Miss Brownell’s arm.
“Oh, teacher,” she cried with passionate earnestness, “read that lineover again--oh, read that line over again!”
Miss Brownell, thus suddenly halted in her elocutionary display, lookeddown into a rapt, uplifted face where great purplish-grey eyes wereshining with the radiance of a divine vision--and Miss Brownell wasangry. Angry with this breach of her strict discipline--angry with thisunseemly display of interest in a third class atom whose attentionshould have been focused on long division. Miss Brownell shut her bookand shut her lips and gave Emily a resounding slap on her face.
“Go right back to your seat and mind your own business, Emily Starr,”said Miss Brownell, her cold eyes malignant with her fury.
Emily, thus dashed to earth, moved back to her seat in a daze. Hersmitten cheek was crimson, but the wound was in her heart. Onemoment ago in the seventh heaven--and now _this_--pain, humiliation,misunderstanding! She could not bear it. What had she done to deserveit? She had never been slapped in her life before. The degradationand the injustice ate into her soul. She could not cry--this was “agrief too deep for tears”--she went home from school in a suppressedanguish of bitterness and shame and resentment--an anguish that had nooutlet, for she dared not tell her story at New Moon. Aunt Elizabeth,she felt sure, would say that Miss Brownell had done quite right, andeven Aunt Laura, kind and sweet as she was, would not understand. Shewould be grieved because Emily had misbehaved in school and had had tobe punished.
“Oh, if I could only tell Father all about it!” thought Emily.
She could not eat any supper--she did not think she would ever be ableto eat again. And oh, how she hated that unjust, horrid Miss Brownell!She could never forgive her--never! If there were only some way inwhich she could get square with Miss Brownell! Emily, sitting small andpale and quiet at the New Moon supper table, was a seething volcanoof wounded feeling and misery and pride--ay, pride! Worse even thanthe injustice was the sting of humiliation over this thing that hadhappened. She, Emily Byrd Starr, on whom no hand had ever before beenungently laid, had been slapped like a naughty baby before the wholeschool. Who could endure this and live?
Then destiny stepped in and drew Aunt Laura to the sitting-roombookcase to look in its lower compartment for a certain letter shewanted to see. She took Emily with her to show her a curious oldsnuff-box that had belonged to Hugh Murray, and in rummaging for itlifted out a big, flat bundle of dusty paper--paper of a deep pinkcolour in oddly long and narrow sheets.
“It’s time these old letter-bills were burned,” she said. “What a pileof them! They’ve been here gathering dust for years and they are noearthly good. Father once kept the post-office here at New Moon, youknow, Emily. The mail came only three times a week then, and each daythere was one of these long red ‘letter-bills,’ as they were called.Mother always kept them, though when once used they were of no furtheruse. But I’m going to burn them right away.”
“Oh, Aunt Laura,” gasped Emily, so torn between desire and fear thatshe could hardly speak. “Oh, don’t do that--give them to me--_please_give them to me.”
“Why, child, what ever do you want of them?”
“Oh, Aunty, they have such lovely blank backs for writing on. Please,Aunt Laura, it would be a _sin_ to burn those letter-bills.”
“You can have them, dear. Only you’d better not let Elizabeth see them.”
“I won’t--I won’t,” breathed Emily.
She gathered her precious booty into her arms and fairly ranupstairs--and then upstairs again into the garret, where she alreadyhad her “favourite haunt,” in which her uncomfortable habit of thinkingof things thousands of miles away could not vex Aunt Elizabeth. Thiswas the quiet corner of the dormer window, where shadows always movedabout, softly and swingingly, and beautiful mosaics patterned the barefloor. From it one could see over the tree-tops right down to the BlairWater. The walls were hung around with great bundles of soft fluffyrolls, all ready for spinning, and hanks of untwisted yarn. SometimesAunt Laura spun on the great wheel at the other end of the garret andEmily loved the whirr of it.
In the recess of the dormer window she crouched--breathlessly sheselected a letter-bill and extracted a lead pencil from her pocket. Anold sheet of cardboard served as a desk; she began to write feverishly.
“Dear Father”--and then she poured out her tale of the day--of herrapture and her pain--writing heedlessly and intently until the sunsetfaded into dim, star-litten twilight. The chickens went unfed--CousinJimmy had to go himself for the cows--Saucy Sal got no new milk--AuntLaura had to wash the dishes--what mattered it? Emily, in thedelightful throes of literary composition, was lost to all worldlythings.
When she had covered the backs of four letter-bills she could see towrite no more. But she had emptied out her soul and it was once morefree from evil passions. She even felt curiously indifferent to MissBrownell. Emily folded up her letter-bills and wrote clearly across thepacket,
                    _Mr. Douglas Starr,                             On the Road to Heaven._
Then she stepped softly across to an old, worn-out sofa in a far cornerand knelt down, stowing away her letter and her “letter-bills” snuglyon a little shelf formed by a board nailed across it underneath.Emily had discovered this one day when playing in the garret and hadnoted it as a lovely hiding-place for secret documents. Nobody wouldever come across them there. She had writing paper enough to last formonths--there must be hundreds of those jolly old letter-bills.
“Oh,” cried Emily, dancing down the garret stairs, “I feel as if I wasmade out of star-dust.”
Thereafter few evenings passed on which Emily did not steal up to thegarret and write a letter, long or short, to her father. The bitternessdied out of her grief. Writing to him seemed to bring him so near; andshe told him everything, with a certain honesty of confession thatwas characteristic of her--her triumphs, her failures, her joys, hersorrows, everything went down on the letter-bills of a Government whichhad not been so economical of paper as it afterwards became. There wasfully half a yard of paper in each bill and Emily wrote a small handand made the most of every inch.
“I like New Moon. It’s so _stately_ and _splendid_ here,” she told herfather. “And it seems as if we must be very aristokratik when we have asun dyal. I can’t help feeling proud of it all. I am afraid I have toomuch pride and so I ask God every night to take _most_ of it away butnot quite all. It is very easy to get a repputation for pride in BlairWater school. If you walk straight and hold your head up you are aproud one. Rhoda is proud, too, because her father ought to be King ofEngland. I wonder how Queen Victoria would feel if she knew that. It’svery wonderful to have a friend who would be a princess if every onehad their rites. I love Rhoda with all my heart. She is so sweet andkind. But I don’t like her giggles. And when I told her I could see theschool wallpaper small in the air she said You lie. It hurt me awfullyto have my dearest friend say that to me. And it hurt me worse when Iwoke up in the night and thought about it. I had to stay awake ever solong, too, because I was tired lying on one side and I was afraid toturn over because Aunt Elizabeth would think I was figitting.
“I didn’t dare tell Rhoda about the Wind Woman because I supposethat really is a kind of lie, though she seems so real to me. I hearher now singing up on the roof around the big chimneys. I have noEmily-in-the-glass here. The looking-glasses are all too high up inthe rooms I’ve been in. I’ve never been in the look-out. It is alwayslocked. It was Mother’s room and Cousin Jimmy says her father lockedit up after she ran away with you and Aunt Elizabeth keeps it lockedstill out of respect to his memory, though Cousin Jimmy says AuntElizabeth used to fight with her father something scandalus when he wasalive though no outsider knew of it because of the Murray pride. I feelthat way myself. When Rhoda asked me if Aunt Elizabeth burned candlesbecause she was old-fashioned I answered hawtily no, it was a Murraytradishun. Cousin Jimmy has told me all the tradishuns of the Murrays.Saucy Sal is very well and bosses the barns but still she will not havekittens and I can’t understand it. I asked Aunt Elizabeth about it andshe said nice little girls didn’t talk about such things but I cannotsee why kittens are impropper. When Aunt Elizabeth is away Aunt Lauraand I smuggle Sal into the house but when Aunt Elizabeth comes back Ialways feel gilty and wish I hadn’t. _But the next time I do it again._I think that very strange. I never hear about dear Mike. I wrote EllenGreene and asked about him and she replyed and never mentioned Mike buttold me all about her roomatism. As if I cared about her roomatism.
“Rhoda is going to have a birthday party and she is going to inviteme. I am so exited. You know I never was to a party before. I thinkabout it a great deal and picture it out. Rhoda is not going to inviteall the girls but only a favered few. I hope Aunt Elizabeth will letme ware my white dress and good hat. Oh, Father, I pinned that lovelypicture of the lace ball dress up on the wall of Aunt Elizabeth’sroom, just like I had it at home and Aunt Elizabeth took it down andburned it and skolded me for making pin marks in the paper. I said AuntElizabeth you should not have burned that picture. I wanted to haveit when I grow up to have a dress made like it for balls. And AuntElizabeth said Do you expect to attend many balls if I may ask and Isaid Yes when I am rich and famus and Aunt Elizabeth said Yes when themoon is made of green cheese.
“I saw Dr. Burnley yesterday when he came over to buy some eggs fromAunt Elizabeth. I was disappointed because he looks just like otherpeople. I thought a man who didn’t believe in God would look queer insome way. He did not sware either and I was sorry for I have neverheard any one sware and I am very angshus to. He has big yellow eyeslike Ilse and a loud voice and Rhoda says when he gets mad you can hearhim yelling all over Blair Water. There is some mistery about Ilse’smother which I cannot fathum. Dr. Burnley and Ilse live alone. Rhodasays Dr. Burnley says he will have no devils of women in that house.That speech is wikked but striking. Old Mrs. Simms goes over and cooksdinner and supper for them and then vamooses and they get their ownbreakfast. The doctor sweeps out the house now and then and Ilse neverdoes anything but run wild. The doctor never smiles so Rhoda says. Hemust be like King Henry the Second.
“I would like to get akwanted with Ilse. She isn’t as sweet as Rhodabut I like her looks, too. But she doesn’t come to school much andRhoda says I mustn’t have any chum but her or she will cry her eyesout. Rhoda loves me as much as I love her. We are both going to praythat we may live together all our lives and die the same day.
“Aunt Elizabeth always puts up my school dinner for me. She won’tgive me anything but plain bread and butter but she cuts good thickslices and the butter is thick too and never has the horrid taste EllenGreene’s butter used to have. And Aunt Laura slips in a cooky or anapple turnover when Aunt Elizabeth’s back is turned. Aunt Elizabethsays apple turnovers are not helthy for me. Why is it that the nicestthings never are helthy, Father? Ellen Greene used to say that too.
“My teacher’s name is Miss Brownell. I don’t like the cut of her jib.(That is a naughtical frays that Cousin Jimmy uses. I know frays isnot spelled right but there is no dixonary at New Moon but that is thesound of it.) She is too sarkastik and she likes to make you rediklus.Then she laughs at you in a disagreable, snorting way. But I forgaveher for slapping me and I took a boquet to her to school next day tomake up. She receeved it very coldly and let it fade on her desk. Ina story she would have wepped on my neck. I don’t know whether it isany use forgiving people or not. Yes, it is, it makes you feel morecomfortable yourself. You never had to ware baby aprons and sunbonnetsbecause you were a boy so you can’t understand how I feel about it.And the aprons are made of such good stuff that they will never wareout and it will be years before I grow out of them. But I have a whitedress for church with a black silk sash and a white legorn hat withblack bows and black kid slippers, and I feel very elegant in them.I wish I could have a bang but Aunt Elizabeth will not hear to it.Rhoda told me I had beautiful eyes. I wish she hadn’t. I have alwayssuspekted my eyes were beautiful but I was not sure. Now that I knowthey are I’m afraid I’ll always be wondering if people notis it. I haveto go to bed at half past eight and I don’t like it but I sit up in bedand look out of the window till it gets dark, so I get square with AuntElizabeth that way, and I listen to the sound the sea makes. I likeit now though it always makes me feel sorrowful, but it’s a kind of anice sorrow. I have to sleep with Aunt Elizabeth and I don’t like thateither because if I move ever so little she says I figit but she admitsthat I don’t kick. And she won’t let me put the window up. She doesn’tlike fresh air or light in the house. The parlour is dark as a toomb.I went in one day and rolled up all the blinds and Aunt Elizabeth washorrifyed and called me a little hussy and gave me the Murray look. Youwould suppose I had committed a crime. I felt so insulted that I cameup to the garret and wrote a deskription of myself being drowned on aletter-bill and then I felt better. Aunt Elizabeth said I was never togo into the parlour again without permission but I don’t want to. I amafraid of the parlour. All the walls are hung over with pictures of ourancesters and there is not one good-looking person among them exceptGrand-father Murray who looks handsome but very cross. The spare roomis upstairs and is just as gloomy as the parlour. Aunt Elizabeth onlylets distingwished people sleep there. I like the kitchen in daytime,and the garret and the cook-house and the sitting-room and the hallbecause of the lovely red front door and I love the dairy, but I don’tlike the other New Moon rooms. Oh, I forgot the cellar cubbord. Ilove to go down there and look at the beautiful rows of jam and jellypots. Cousin Jimmy says it is a New Moon tradishun that the jam potsmust never be empty. What a lot of tradishuns New Moon has. It is avery spashus house, and the trees are lovely. I have named the threelombardys at the garden gate the Three Princesses and I have namedthe old summer house Emily’s Bower, and the big apple tree by the oldorchard gate the Praying Tree because it holds up its long boughsexactly as Mr. Dare holds up his arms in church where he prays.
“Aunt Elizabeth has given me the little right hand top burow drawer tokeep my things in.
“Oh, Father dear, I have made a great diskoverry. I wish I had made itwhen you were alive for I think you’d have liked to know. _I can writepoetry._ Perhaps I could have written it long ago if I’d tried. Butafter that first day in school I felt I was bound in honnour to tryand it is so easy. There is a little curly black-covered book in AuntElizabeth’s bookcase called Thompson’s Seasons and I decided I wouldwrite a poem on a season and the first three lines are,
    Now Autumn comes ripe with the peech and pear,    The sportsman’s horn is heard throughout the land,    And the poor partridge fluttering falls dead.
“Of course there are no peeches in P. E. Island and I never heard asportsman’s horn here either, but you don’t have to stick too close tofacts in poetry. I filled a whole letter-bill with it and then I ranand read it to Aunt Laura. I thought she would be overjoyed to findshe had a niece who could write poetry but she took it very coollyand said it didn’t sound much like poetry. It’s blank verse I cryed._Very_ blank said Aunt Elizabeth sarkastically though I hadn’t asked_her_ opinion. But I think I will write ryming poetry after this sothat there will be no mistake about it and I intend to be a poetesswhen I grow up and become famus. I hope also that I will be silph-like.A poetess should be silph-like. Cousin Jimmy makes poetry too. He hasmade over 1000 pieces but he never writes any down but carries themin his head. I offered to give him some of my letter-bills--for he isvery kind to me--but he said he was too old to learn new habits. Ihaven’t heard any of his poetry yet because the spirit hasn’t movedhim but I am very angshus to and I am sorry they don’t fatten the pigstill the fall. I like Cousin Jimmy more and more all the time, exceptwhen he takes his queer spells of looking and talking. Then he fritensme but they never last long. I have read a good many of the books inthe New Moon bookcase. A history of the reformation in France, veryrelijus and sad. A little fat book deskribing the months in Englandand the afoursaid Thompson’s Seasons. I like to read them because theyhave so many pretty words in them, but I don’t like the feel of them.The paper is so rough and thick it makes me creepy. Travels in Spain,very fassinating, with lovely smooth shiny paper, a missionary bookon the Paciffic Islands, pictures very interesting because of the waythe heathen chiefs arange their hair. After they became Christiansthey cut it off which I think was a pity. Mrs. Hemans Poems. I ampasshunately fond of poetry, also of stories about desert islands. RobRoy, a novel, but I only read a little of it when Aunt Elizabeth saidI must stop because I must not read novels. Aunt Laura says to readit on the sly. I don’t see why it wouldn’t be all right to obey AuntLaura but I have a queer feeling about it and I haven’t yet. A lovelyTiger-book, full of pictures and stories of tigers that make me feelso nice and shivery. The Royal Road, also relijus but some fun in itso very good for Sundays. Reuben and Grace, a story but not a novel,because Reuben and Grace are brother and sister and there is no gettingmarried. Little Katy and Jolly Jim, same as above but not so excitingand traggic. Nature’s Mighty Wonders which is good and improving. Alicein Wonderland, which is perfectly lovely, and the Memoirs of AnzonettaB. Peters who was converted at seven and died at twelve. When anybodyasked for a question she answered with a hym verse. That is after shewas converted. Before that she spoke English. Aunt Elizabeth told me Iought to try to be like Anzonetta. I think I might be an Alice undermore faverable circumstances but I am sure I can never be as goodas Anzonetta was and I don’t believe I want to be because she neverhad any fun. She got sick as soon as she was converted and sufferedaggonies for years. Besides I am sure that if I talked hyms to peopleit would exite ridicule. I tried it once. Aunt Laura asked me the otherday if I would like blue stripes better than red in my next winter’sstockings and I ansered just as Anzonetta did when asked a similarquestion, only different, about a sack,
    Jesus Thy blood and rightchusness    My beauty are, my glorious dress.
And Aunt Laura said was I crazy and Aunt Elizabeth said I wasireverent. So I know it wouldn’t work. Besides, Anzonetta couldn’t eatanything for years having ulsers in her stomach and I am pretty fond ofgood eating.
“Old Mr. Wales on the Derry Pond Road is dying of canser. Jennie Strangsays his wife has her morning all ready.
“I wrote a biograffy of Saucy Sal to-day and a deskripshun of the roadin Lofty John’s bush. I will pin them to this letter so you can readthem too. Good night my beloved Father.
“Yours most obedient humble servant,
                                  “_Emily B. Starr._
“P. S. I think Aunt Laura loves me. I like to be loved, Father dear.
                                        “_E. B. S._”



CHAPTER X
GROWING PAINS

There was a great deal of suppressed excitement in school during thelast week in June, the cause thereof being Rhoda Stuart’s birthdayparty, which was to take place early in July. The amount of heartburning was incredible. Who was to be invited? That was the greatquestion. There were some who knew they wouldn’t and some who knewthey would; but there were more who were in truly horrible suspense.Everybody paid court to Emily because she was Rhoda’s dearest friendand might conceivably have some voice in the selection of guests.Jennie Strang even went as far as bluntly to offer Emily a beautifulwhite box with a gorgeous picture of Queen Victoria on the cover, tokeep her pencils in, if she would procure her an invitation. Emilyrefused the bribe and said grandly that she could not interfere in sucha delicate matter. Emily really did put on some airs about it. _She_was sure of her invitation. Rhoda had told her about the party weeksbefore and had talked it all over with her. It was to be a very grandaffair--a birthday cake covered with pink icing and adorned with tentall pink candles--ice-cream and oranges--and written invitations onpink, gilt-edged notepaper _sent through the post-office_--this lastbeing an added touch of exclusiveness. Emily dreamed about that partyday and night and had her present all ready for Rhoda--a pretty hairribbon which Aunt Laura had brought from Shrewsbury.
On the first Sunday in July Emily found herself sitting beside JennieStrang in Sunday School for the opening exercises. Generally she andRhoda sat together, but now Rhoda was sitting three seats ahead with astrange little girl--a very gay and gorgeous little girl, dressed inblue silk, with a large, flower-wreathed leghorn hat on her elaboratelycurled hair, white lace-work stockings on her pudgy legs and a bangthat came clean down to her eyes. Not all her fine feathers could makea really fine bird of her, however; she was not in the least pretty andher expression was cross and contemptuous.
“Who is the girl sitting with Rhoda?” whispered Emily.
“Oh, she’s Muriel Porter,” answered Jennie. “She’s a towny, you know.She’s come out to spend her vacation with her aunt, Jane Beatty. Ihate her. If I was her I’d never _dream_ of wearing blue with a skinas dark as hers. But the Porters are rich and Muriel thinks she’s awonder. They say Rhoda and her have been _awful thick_ since she cameout--Rhoda’s always chasing after anybody she thinks is up in theworld.”
Emily stiffened up. She was not going to listen to disparaging remarksabout her friends. Jennie felt the stiffening and changed her note.
“Anyway, I’m _glad_ I’m not invited to Rhoda’s old party. I wouldn’t_want_ to go when Muriel Porter will be there, putting on her airs.”
“How do you know you are not invited?” wondered Emily.
“Why, the invitations went out yesterday. Didn’t you get yours?”
“No--o--o.”
“Did you get your mail?”
“Yes--Cousin Jimmy got it.”
“Well, maybe Mrs. Beecher forgot to give it to him. Likely you’ll getit to-morrow.”
Emily agreed that it was likely. But a queer cold sensation of dismayhad invaded her being, which was not removed by the fact that afterSunday School Rhoda strutted away with Muriel Porter without a glanceat any one else. On Monday Emily herself went to the post-office,but there was no pink envelope for her. She cried herself to sleepthat night, but did not quite give up hope until Tuesday had passed.Then she faced the terrible truth--that she--she, Emily Byrd Starr,of New Moon--had not been invited to Rhoda’s party. The thing wasincredible. There _must_ be a mistake somewhere. Had Cousin Jimmy lostthe invitation on the road home? Had Rhoda’s grown-up sister who wrotethe invitations overlooked her name? Had,--Emily’s unhappy doubtswere forever resolved into bitter certainty by Jennie, who joined heras she left the post-office. There was a malicious light in Jennie’sbeady eyes. Jennie liked Emily quite well by now, in spite of theirpassage-at-arms on the day of their first meeting, but she liked to seeher pride humbled for all that.
“So you’re not invited to Rhoda’s party after all.”
“No,” admitted Emily.
It was a very bitter moment for her. The Murray pride was sorelywrung--and, beneath the Murray pride, something else had beengrievously wounded but was not yet quite dead.
“Well, I call it dirt mean,” said Jennie, quite honestly sympathetic inspite of her secret satisfaction. “After all the fuss she’s made overyou, too! But that’s Rhoda Stuart all over. Deceitful is no name for_her_.”
“I don’t think she’s deceitful,” said Emily, loyal to the last ditch.“I believe there’s some mistake about my not being invited.”
Jennie stared.
“Then you don’t know the reason? Why, Beth Beatty told me the wholestory. Muriel Porter hates you and she just up and told Rhoda that shewould not go to her party if you were invited. And Rhoda was so crazyto have a town girl there that she promised she wouldn’t invite you.”
“Muriel Porter doesn’t know me,” gasped Emily. “How can she hate me?”
Jennie grinned impishly.
“_I_ can tell you. She’s _dead stuck_ on Fred Stuart and Fred knows itand he teased her by praising _you_ up to her--told her you were thesweetest girl in Blair Water and he meant to have you for _his girl_when you were a little older. And Muriel was so mad and jealous shemade Rhoda leave you out. _I_ wouldn’t care if I was you. A Murray ofNew Moon is away above such trash. As for Rhoda not being deceitful,I can tell you she _is_. Why, she told you that she didn’t know thatsnake was in the box, when it was her thought of doing it in the firstplace.”
Emily was too crushed to reply. She was glad that Jennie had toswitch off down her own lane and leave her alone. She hurried home,afraid that she could not keep the tears back until she got there.Disappointment about the party--humiliation over the insult--all wereswallowed up in the anguish of a faith betrayed and a trust outraged.Her love of Rhoda was quite dead now and Emily smarted to the coreof her soul with the pain of the blow that had killed it. It was achild’s tragedy--and all the more bitter for that, since there was noone to understand. Aunt Elizabeth told her that birthday parties wereall nonsense and that the Stuarts were not a family that the Murrayshad ever associated with. And even Aunt Laura, though she petted andcomforted, did not realize how deep and grievous the hurt had been--sodeep and grievous that Emily could not even write about it to herfather, and had no outlet for the violence of emotion that racked herbeing.
The next Sunday Rhoda was alone in Sunday School, Muriel Porter havingbeen suddenly summoned back to town by her father’s illness; and Rhodalooked sweetly towards Emily. But Emily sailed past her with a headheld very high and scorn on every lineament. She would _never_ haveanything to do with Rhoda Stuart again--she couldn’t. She despisedRhoda more than ever for trying to get back with her, now that the towngirl for whom she had sacrificed her was gone. It was not for Rhoda shemourned--it was for the friendship that had been so dear to her. Rhoda_had_ been dear and sweet on the surface at least, and Emily had foundintense happiness in their companionship. Now it was gone and she couldnever, _never_ love or trust anybody again. _There_ lay the sting.
It poisoned everything. Emily was of a nature which, even as a child,did not readily recover from or forget such a blow. She moped aboutNew Moon, lost her appetite and grew thin. She hated to go to SundaySchool because she thought the other girls exulted in her humiliationand her estrangement from Rhoda. Some slight feeling of the kind therewas, perhaps, but Emily morbidly exaggerated it. If two girls whisperedor giggled together she thought she was being discussed and laughedat. If one of them walked home with her she thought it was out ofcondescending pity because she was friendless. For a month Emily wasthe most unhappy little being in Blair Water.
“I think I must have been put under a curse at birth,” she reflecteddisconsolately.
Aunt Elizabeth had a more prosaic idea to account for Emily’s languorand lack of appetite. She had come to the conclusion that Emily’s heavymasses of hair “took from her strength” and that she would be muchstronger and better if it were cut off. With Aunt Elizabeth to decidewas to act. One morning she coolly informed Emily that her hair was tobe “shingled.”
Emily could not believe her ears.
“You don’t mean that you are going to cut off my hair, Aunt Elizabeth,”she exclaimed.
“Yes, I mean exactly that,” said Aunt Elizabeth firmly. “You haveentirely too much hair especially for hot weather. I feel sure that iswhy you have been so miserable lately. Now, I don’t want any crying.”
But Emily could not keep the tears back.
“Don’t cut it _all_ off,” she pleaded. “Just cut a good big bang. Lotsof the girls have their hair banged clean from the crown of theirheads. That would take half my hair off and the rest won’t take toomuch strength.”
“There will be no bangs here,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “I’ve told you sooften enough. I’m going to shingle your hair close all over your headfor the hot weather. You’ll be thankful to me some day for it.”
Emily felt anything but thankful just then.
“It’s my one beauty,” she sobbed, “it and my lashes. I suppose you wantto cut off my lashes too.”
Aunt Elizabeth _did_ distrust those long, upcurled fringes of Emily’s,which were an inheritance from the girlish stepmother, and tooun-Murray-like to be approved; but she had no designs against them. Thehair must go, however, and she curtly bade Emily wait there, withoutany fuss, until she got the scissors.
Emily waited--quite hopelessly. She must lose her lovely hair--thehair her father had been so proud of. It might grow again in time--ifAunt Elizabeth let it--but that would take years, and meanwhile what afright she would be! Aunt Laura and Cousin Jimmy were out; she had noone to back her up; this horrible thing must happen.
Aunt Elizabeth returned with the scissors; they clicked suggestivelyas she opened them; that click, as if by magic, seemed to loosensomething--some strange formidable power in Emily’s soul. She turneddeliberately around and faced her aunt. She felt her brows drawingtogether in an unaccustomed way--she felt an uprush as from unknowndepths of some irresistible surge of energy.
“Aunt Elizabeth,” she said, looking straight at the lady with thescissors, “_my hair is not going to be cut off_. Let me hear no more ofthis.”
An amazing thing happened to Aunt Elizabeth. She turned pale--she laidthe scissors down--she looked aghast for one moment at the transformedor possessed child before her--and then for the first time in her lifeElizabeth Murray turned tail and fled--literally fled--to the kitchen.
“What is the matter, Elizabeth?” cried Laura, coming in from thecook-house.
“I saw--Father--looking from her face,” gasped Elizabeth, trembling.“And she said, ‘Let me hear no more of this,’--just as _he_ always saidit--his very words.”
Emily overheard her and ran to the sideboard mirror. She had had, whileshe was speaking, an uncanny feeling of wearing somebody else’s faceinstead of her own. It was vanishing now--but Emily caught a glimpseof it as it left--the Murray look, she supposed. No wonder it hadfrightened Aunt Elizabeth--it frightened herself--she was glad that ithad gone. She shivered--she fled to her garret retreat and cried; butsomehow, she knew that her hair would not be cut.
Nor was it; Aunt Elizabeth never referred to the matter again. Butseveral days passed before she meddled much with Emily.
It was a rather curious fact that from that day Emily ceased togrieve over her lost friend. The matter had suddenly become of smallimportance. It was as if it had happened so long ago that nothing, savethe mere emotionless memory of it, remained. Emily speedily regainedappetite and animation, resumed her letters to her father and foundthat life tasted good again, marred only by a mysterious presciencethat Aunt Elizabeth had it in for her in regard to her defeat in thematter of her hair and would get even sooner or later.
Aunt Elizabeth “got even” within the week. Emily was to go on an errandto the shop. It was a broiling day and she had been allowed to gobarefooted at home; but now she must put on boots and stockings. Emilyrebelled--it was too hot--it was too dusty--she couldn’t walk that longhalf-mile in buttoned boots. Aunt Elizabeth was inexorable. No Murraymust be seen barefooted away from home--and on they went. But theminute Emily was outside the New Moon gate she deliberately sat down,took them off, stowed them in a hole in the dyke, and pranced awaybarefooted.
She did her errand and returned with an untroubled conscience. Howbeautiful the world was--how softly blue was the great, round BlairWater--how glorious that miracle of buttercups in the wet field belowLofty John’s bush! At sight of it Emily stood stock still and composeda verse of poetry.
    “Buttercup, flower of the yellow dye,      I see thy cheerful face    Greeting and nodding everywhere      Careless of time and place.
    “In boggy field or public road      Or cultured garden’s pale    You sport your petals satin-soft,      And down within the vale.”
So far, so good. But Emily wanted another verse to round the poem offproperly and the divine afflatus seemed gone. She walked dreamily home,and by the time she reached New Moon she had got her verse and wasreciting it to herself with an agreeable sense of completion.
    “You cast your loveliness around      Where’er you chance to be,    And you shall always, buttercup,      Be a flower dear to me.”
Emily felt very proud. This was her third poem and undoubtedly herbest. Nobody could say _it_ was very blank. She must hurry up tothe garret and write it on a letter-bill. But Aunt Elizabeth wasconfronting her on the steps.
“Emily, where are your boots and stockings?”
Emily came back from cloudland with a disagreeable jolt. She hadforgotten all about boots and stockings.
“In the hole by the gate,” she said flatly.
“You went to the store barefooted?”
“Yes.”
“After I had told you not to?”
This seemed to Emily a superfluous question and she did not answer it.But Aunt Elizabeth’s turn had come.



CHAPTER XI
ILSE

Emily was locked in the spare-room and told that she must stay thereuntil bedtime. She had pleaded against such a punishment in vain. Shehad tried to give the Murray look but it seemed that--in her case atany rate--it did not come at will.
“Oh, don’t shut me up alone there, Aunt Elizabeth,” she implored. “Iknow I was naughty--but don’t put me in the spare-room.”
Aunt Elizabeth was inexorable. She knew that it was a cruel thing toshut an over-sensitive child like Emily in that gloomy room. But shethought she was doing her duty. She did not realize and would not havefor a moment believed that she was really wreaking her own smotheredresentment with Emily for her defeat and fright on the day of thethreatened hair-cutting. Aunt Elizabeth believed she had been stampededon that occasion by a chance family resemblance coming out understress, and she was ashamed of it. The Murray pride had smarted underthat humbling, and the smart ceased to annoy her only when she turnedthe key of the spare-room on the white-faced culprit.
Emily, looking very small and lost and lonely, her eyes full of suchfear as should have no place in a child’s eyes, shrank close againstthe door of the spare-room. It was better that way. She could notimagine things behind her then. And the room was so big and dim thata dreadful number of things could be imagined in it. Its bignessand dimness filled her with a terror against which she could notstrive. Ever since she could remember she had had a horror of beingshut up alone in semi-darkness. She was not frightened of twilightout-of-doors, but this shadowy, walled gloom made of the spare-room aplace of dread.
The window was hung with heavy, dark-green material, reinforced bydrawn slat-blinds. The big canopied bed, jutting out from the wallinto the middle of the floor, was high and rigid and curtained alsowith dark draperies. _Anything_ might jump at her out of such a bed.What if some great black hand should suddenly reach out of it--reachright across the floor--and pluck at her? The walls, like those of theparlour, were adorned with pictures of departed relatives. There _was_such a large connection of dead Murrays. The glasses of their framesgave out weird reflections of the spectral threads of light strugglingthrough the slat blinds. Worst of all, right across the room from her,high up on the top of the black wardrobe, was a huge, stuffed whiteArctic owl, staring at her with uncanny eyes. Emily shrieked aloudwhen she saw it, and then cowered down in her corner aghast at thesound she had made in the great, silent, echoing room. She wished thatsomething _would_ jump out of the bed and put an end to her.
“I wonder what Aunt Elizabeth would feel like if I was found here_dead_,” she thought, vindictively.
In spite of her fright she began to dramatize it and felt AuntElizabeth’s remorse so keenly that she decided only to be unconsciousand come back to life when everybody was sufficiently scared andpenitent. But people _had_ died in this room--dozens of them. Accordingto Cousin Jimmy it was a New Moon tradition that when any member of thefamily was near death he or she was promptly removed to the spare-room,to die amid surroundings of proper grandeur. Emily could _see_ themdying, in that terrible bed. She felt that she was going to screamagain, but she fought the impulse down. A Starr must not be a coward.Oh, that owl! Suppose, when she looked away from it and then lookedback she would find that it had silently hopped down from the wardrobeand was coming towards her. Emily dared not look at it for fear thatwas just what had happened. _Didn’t_ the bed curtains stir and waver!She felt beads of cold perspiration on her forehead.
Then something did happen. A beam of sunlight struck through a smallbreak in one of the slats of the blind and fell directly athwart thepicture of Grandfather Murray hanging over the mantel-piece. It was acrayon “enlargement” copied from the old daguerreotype in the parlourbelow. In that gleam of light his face seemed veritably to leap out ofthe gloom at Emily with its grim frown strangely exaggerated. Emily’snerve gave way completely. In an ungovernable spasm of panic she rushedmadly across the room to the window, dashed the curtains aside, andcaught up the slat blind. A blessed flood of sunshine burst in. Outsidewas a wholesome, friendly, human world. And, of all wonders, there,leaning right against the window-sill was a ladder! For a moment Emilyalmost believed that a miracle had been worked for her escape.
Cousin Jimmy had tripped that morning over the ladder, lying lost amongthe burdocks under the balm-of-gileads behind the dairy. It was veryrotten and he decided it was time it was disposed of. He had shoulderedit up against the house so that he would be sure to see it on hisreturn from the hayfield.
In less time than it takes to write of it Emily had got the window up,climbed out on the sill, and backed down the ladder. She was too intenton escaping from that horrible room to be conscious of the shakiness ofthe rotten rungs. When she reached the ground she bolted through thebalm-of-gileads and over the fence into Lofty John’s bush, nor did shestop running till she reached the path by the brook.
Then she paused for breath, exultant. She was full of a fearful joywith an elfin delight running through it. Sweet was the wind of freedomthat was blowing over the ferns. She had escaped from the spare-roomand its ghosts--she had got the better of mean old Aunt Elizabeth.
“I feel as if I was a little bird that had just got out of a cage,” shetold herself; and then she danced with joy of it all along her fairypath to the very end, where she found Ilse Burnley huddled up on thetop of a fence panel, her pale-gold head making a spot of brillianceagainst the dark young firs that crowded around her. Emily had not seenher since that first day of school and again she thought she had neverseen or pretended anybody just like Ilse.
“Well, Emily of New Moon,” said Ilse, “where are you running to?”
“I’m running away,” said Emily frankly. “I was bad--at least, I was alittle bad--and Aunt Elizabeth locked me in the spare-room. I hadn’tbeen bad enough for _that_--it wasn’t fair--so I got out of the windowand down the ladder.”
“You little cuss! I didn’t think you’d gimp enough for that,” said Ilse.
Emily gasped. It seemed very dreadful to be called a little cuss. ButIlse had said it quite admiringly.
“I don’t think it was gimp,” said Emily, too honest to take acompliment she didn’t deserve. “I was too scared to stay in that room.”
“Well, where are you going now?” asked Ilse. “You’ll have to gosomewhere--you can’t stay outdoors. There’s a thunderstorm coming up.”
So there was. Emily did not like thunderstorms. And her consciencesmote her.
“Oh,” she said, “do you suppose God is bringing up that storm to punishme because I’ve run away?”
“No,” said Ilse scornfully. “If there is any God he wouldn’t make sucha fuss over nothing.”
“Oh, Ilse, don’t you believe there is a God?”
“I don’t know. Father says there isn’t. But in that case how did thingshappen? Some days I believe there’s a God and some days I don’t. You’dbetter come home with me. There’s nobody there. I was so dod-gastedlylonesome I took to the bush.”
Ilse sprang down and held out her sunburned paw to Emily. Emilytook it and they ran together over Lofty John’s pasture to the oldBurnley house which looked like a huge grey cat basking in the warmlate sunshine, that had not yet been swallowed up by the menacingthunderheads. Inside, it was full of furniture that must have beenquite splendid once; but the disorder was dreadful and the dust laythickly over everything. Nothing was in the right place apparently, andAunt Laura would certainly have fainted with horror if she had seenthe kitchen. But it was a good place to play. You didn’t have to becareful not to mess things up. Ilse and Emily had a glorious game ofhide and seek all over the house until the thunder got so heavy andthe lightning so bright that Emily felt she must huddle on the sofa andnurse her courage.
“Aren’t you ever afraid of thunder?” she asked Ilse.
“No, I ain’t afraid of anything except the devil,” said Ilse.
“I thought you didn’t believe in the devil either--Rhoda said youdidn’t.”
“Oh, there’s a devil all right, Father says. It’s only God he doesn’tbelieve in. And if there _is_ a devil and no God to keep him in order,is it any wonder I’m scared of him? Look here, Emily Byrd Starr, Ilike you--heaps. I’ve always liked you. I knew you’d soon be good andsick of that little, white-livered, lying sneak of a Rhoda Stuart. _I_never tell lies. Father told me once he’d kill me if he ever caught metelling a lie. I want you for _my_ chum. I’d go to school regular if Icould sit with you.”
“All right,” said Emily off-handedly. No more sentimental Rhodian vowsof eternal devotion for her. _That_ phase was over.
“And you’ll tell me things--nobody ever tells me things. And let _me_tell _you_ things--I haven’t anybody to tell things to,” said Ilse.“And you won’t be ashamed of me because my clothes are always queer andbecause I don’t believe in God?”
“No. But if you knew Father’s God you’d believe in _Him_.”
“I wouldn’t. Besides, there’s only one God if there is any at all.”
“I don’t know,” said Emily perplexedly. “No, it can’t be like that.Ellen Greene’s God isn’t a bit like Father’s, and neither is AuntElizabeth’s. I don’t think I’d _like_ Aunt Elizabeth’s, but He is a_dignified_ God at least, and Ellen’s isn’t. And I’m sure Aunt Laura’sis another one still--nice and kind but not wonderful like Father’s.”
“Well never mind--I don’t like talking about God,” said Ilseuncomfortably.
“_I_ do,” said Emily. “I think God is a very interesting subject, andI’m going to pray for you, Ilse, that you can believe in Father’s God.”
“Don’t you dast!” shouted Ilse, who for some mysterious reason did notlike the idea. “I won’t be prayed for!”
“Don’t you ever pray yourself, Ilse?”
“Oh, now and then--when I feel lonesome at night--or when I’m in ascrape. But I don’t want any one else to pray for me. If I catch youdoing it, Emily Starr, I’ll tear your eyes out. And don’t you gosneaking and praying for me behind my back either.”
“All right, I won’t,” said Emily sharply, mortified at the failure ofher well-meant offer. “I’ll pray for every single soul I know, but I’llleave you out.”
For a moment Ilse looked as if she didn’t like this either. Then shelaughed and gave Emily a volcanic hug.
“Well, anyway, please like me. Nobody likes me, you know.”
“Your father _must_ like you, Ilse.”
“He doesn’t,” said Ilse positively. “Father doesn’t care a hoot aboutme. I think there’s times when he hates the sight of me. I wish he_did_ like me because he can be awful nice when he likes any one.Do you know what I’m going to be when I grow up? I’m going to be anelo-cu-tion-ist.”
“What’s that?”
“A woman who recites at concerts. I can do it dandy. What are you goingto be?”
“A poetess.”
“Golly!” said Ilse, apparently overcome. “I don’t believe _you_ canwrite poetry,” she added.
“I can so, too,” cried Emily. “I’ve written three pieces--‘Autumn’and ‘Lines to Rhoda’--only I burned _that_--and ‘An Address to aButtercup.’ I composed it to-day and it is my--my masterpiece.”
“Let’s hear it,” ordered Ilse.
Nothing loth, Emily proudly repeated her lines. Somehow she did notmind letting Ilse hear them.
“Emily Byrd Starr, you _didn’t_ make that out of your own head?”
“I did.”
“Cross your heart?”
“Cross my heart.”
“Well”--Ilse drew a long breath--“I guess you _are_ a poetess allright.”
It was a very proud moment for Emily--one of the great moments of life,in fact. Her world had conceded her standing. But now other thingshad to be thought of. The storm was over and the sun had set. It wastwilight--it would soon be dark. She must get home and back into thespare-room before her absence was discovered. It was dreadful to thinkof going back but she must do it lest a worse thing come upon her atAunt Elizabeth’s hands. Just now, under the inspiration of Ilse’spersonality, she was full of Dutch courage. Besides, it would soon beher bedtime and she would be let out. She trotted home through LoftyJohn’s bush, that was full of the wandering, mysterious lamps of thefireflies, dodged cautiously through the balm-of-gileads--and stoppedshort in dismay. The ladder was gone!
Emily went around to the kitchen door, feeling that she was goingstraight to her doom. But for once the way of the transgressor was madesinfully easy. Aunt Laura was alone in the kitchen.
“Emily dear, where on earth did you come from?” she exclaimed. “I wasjust going up to let you out. Elizabeth said I might--she’s gone toprayer-meeting.”
Aunt Laura did not say that she had tiptoed several times to thespare-room door and had been racked with anxiety over the silencebehind it. Was the child unconscious from fright? Not even while thethunderstorm was going on would relentless Elizabeth allow that doorto be opened. And here was Miss Emily walking unconcernedly in outof the twilight after all this agony. For a moment even Aunt Laurawas annoyed. But when she heard Emily’s tale her only feeling wasthankfulness that Juliet’s child had not broken her neck on that rottenladder.
Emily felt that she had got off better than she deserved. She knew AuntLaura would keep the secret; and Aunt Laura let her give Saucy Sal awhole cupful of strippings, and gave her a big plummy cooky and put herto bed with kisses.
“You oughtn’t to be so good to me because I _was_ bad to-day,” Emilysaid, between delicious mouthfuls. “I suppose I disgraced the Murraysgoing barefoot.”
“If I were you I’d hide my boots every time I went out of the gate,”said Aunt Laura. “But I wouldn’t forget to put them on before I cameback. What Elizabeth doesn’t know will never hurt her.”
Emily reflected over this until she had finished her cooky. Then shesaid,
“That would be nice, but I don’t mean to do it any more. I guess I mustobey Aunt Elizabeth because she’s the head of the family.”
“Where do you get such notions?” said Aunt Laura.
“Out of my head. Aunt Laura, Ilse Burnley and I are going to be chums.I like her--I’ve always felt I’d like her if I had a chance. I don’tbelieve I can ever _love_ any girl again, but I _like_ her.”
“Poor Ilse!” said Aunt Laura, sighing.
“Yes, her father doesn’t like her. Isn’t it dreadful?” said Emily. “Whydoesn’t he?”
“He does--really. He only thinks he doesn’t.”
“But _why_ does he think it?”
“You are too young to understand, Emily.”
Emily hated to be told she was too young to understand. She felt thatshe could understand perfectly well if only people would take thetrouble to explain things to her and not be so mysterious.
“I wish I could pray for her. It wouldn’t be fair, though, when I knowhow she feels about it. But I’ve always asked God to bless all myfriends so she’ll be in _that_ and maybe some good will come of it. Is‘golly’ a proper word to say, Aunt Laura?”
“No--no!”
“I’m sorry for that,” said Emily, seriously, “because it’s verystriking.”



CHAPTER XII
THE TANSY PATCH

Emily and Ilse had a splendid fortnight of fun before their firstfight. It was really quite a terrible fight, arising out of a simpleargument as to whether they would or would not have a parlour in theplayhouse they were building in Lofty John’s bush. Emily wanted aparlour and Ilse didn’t. Ilse lost her temper at once, and went intoa true Burnley tantrum. She was very fluent in her rages and thevolley of abusive “dictionary words” which she hurled at Emily wouldhave staggered most of the Blair Water girls. But Emily was too muchat home with words to be floored so easily; she grew angry too, butin the cool, dignified, Murray way which was more exasperating thanviolence. When Ilse had to pause for breath in her diatribes, Emily,sitting on a big stone with her knees crossed, her eyes black and hercheeks crimson, interjected little sarcastic retorts that infuriatedIlse still further. Ilse was crimson, too, and her eyes were pools ofscintillating, tawny fire. They were both so pretty in their fury thatit was almost a pity they couldn’t have been angry all the time.
“You needn’t suppose, you little puling, snivelling chit, that you aregoing to boss _me_, just because you live at New Moon,” shrieked Ilse,as an ultimatum, stamping her foot.
“I’m not going to boss you--I’m not going to associate with you everagain,” retorted Emily, disdainfully.
“I’m glad to be rid of you--you proud, stuck-up, conceited, top-lofty_biped_,” cried Ilse. “Never you speak to me again. And don’t you goabout Blair Water saying things about me, either.”
This was unbearable to a girl who _never_ “said things” about herfriends or once-friends.
“I’m not going to _say_ things about you,” said Emily deliberately. “Iam just going to _think_ them.”
This was far more aggravating than speech and Emily knew it. Ilse wasdriven quite frantic by it. Who knew what unearthly things Emily mightbe thinking about her any time she took the notion to? Ilse had alreadydiscovered what a fertile invention Emily had.
“Do you suppose I care what you think, you insignificant serpent? Why,you haven’t _any_ sense.”
“I’ve got something then that’s far better,” said Emily, with amaddening superior smile. “Something that _you_ can _never_ have, IlseBurnley.”
Ilse doubled her fists as if she would like to demolish Emily byphysical force.
“If I couldn’t write better poetry than you, I’d hang myself,” shederided.
“I’ll lend you a dime to buy a rope,” said Emily.
Ilse glared at her, vanquished.
“You go to the devil!” she said.
Emily got up and went, not to the devil, but back to New Moon. Ilserelieved _her_ feelings by knocking the boards of their china closetdown, and kicking their “moss gardens” to pieces, and departed also.
Emily felt exceedingly badly. Here was another friendship destroyed--afriendship, too, that had been very delightful and satisfying. Ilse_had_ been a splendid chum--there was no doubt about that. After Emilyhad cooled down she went to the dormer window and cried.
“Wretched, wretched me!” she sobbed, dramatically, but very sincerely.
Yet the bitterness of her break with Rhoda was not present. _This_quarrel was fair and open and above-board. She had not been stabbed inthe back. But of course she and Ilse would never be chums again. Youcouldn’t be chums with a person who called you a chit and a biped, anda serpent, and told you to go to the devil. The thing was impossible.And besides, Ilse could _never_ forgive _her_--for Emily was honestenough to admit to herself that she had been very aggravating, too.
Yet, when Emily went to the playhouse next morning, bent on retrievingher share of broken dishes and boards, there was Ilse, skipping around,hard at work, with all the shelves back in place, the moss gardenre-made, and a beautiful parlour laid out and connected with theliving-room by a spruce arch.
“Hello, you. Here’s your parlour and I hope you’ll be satisfied now,”she said gaily. “What’s kept you so long? I thought you were nevercoming.”
This rather posed Emily after her tragic night, wherein she had buriedher second friendship and wept over its grave. She was not prepared forso speedy a resurrection. As far as Ilse was concerned it seemed as ifno quarrel had ever taken place.
“Why, that was _yesterday_,” she said in amazement, when Emily, ratherdistantly, referred to it. Yesterday and to-day were two entirelydifferent things in Ilse’s philosophy. Emily accepted it--she found shehad to. Ilse, it transpired, could no more help flying into tantrumsnow and then than she could help being jolly and affectionate betweenthem. What amazed Emily, in whom things were bound to rankle for atime, was the way in which Ilse appeared to forget a quarrel themoment it was over. To be called a serpent and a crocodile one minuteand hugged and darling-ed the next was somewhat disconcerting untiltime and experience took the edge off it.
“Aren’t I nice enough between times to make up for it?” demanded Ilse.“Dot Payne never flies into tempers, but would you like _her_ for achum?”
“No, she’s too stupid,” admitted Emily.
“And Rhoda Stuart is never out of temper, but you got enough of _her_.Do you think I’d ever treat you as she did?”
No, Emily had no doubt on this point. Whatever Ilse was or was not, shewas loyal and true.
And certainly Rhoda Stuart and Dot Payne compared to Ilse were “asmoonlight unto sunlight and as water unto wine”--or would have been ifEmily had as yet known anything more of her Tennyson than the _BugleSong_.
“You can’t have everything,” said Ilse. “I’ve got Dad’s temper andthat’s all there is to it. Wait till you see _him_ in one of his rages.”
Emily had not seen this so far. She had often been down in theBurnley’s house but on the few occasions when Dr. Burnley had beenhome he had ignored her save for a curt nod. He was a busy man, for,whatever his shortcomings were, his skill was unquestioned and thebounds of his practice extended far. By the sickbed he was as gentleand sympathetic as he was brusque and sarcastic away from it. As longas you were ill there was nothing Dr. Burnley would not do for you;once you were well he had apparently no further use for you. He hadbeen absorbed all through July trying to save Teddy Kent’s life up atthe Tansy Patch. Teddy was out of danger now and able to be up, buthis improvement was not speedy enough to satisfy Dr. Burnley. One dayhe held up Emily and Ilse, who were heading through the lawn to thepond, with fishing-hooks and a can of fat, abominable worms--the lattermanipulated solely by Ilse--and ordered them to betake themselves up tothe Tansy Patch and play with Teddy Kent.
“He’s lonesome and moping. Go and cheer him up,” said the doctor.
Ilse was rather loth to go. She liked Teddy, but it seemed she did notlike his mother. Emily was secretly not averse. She had seen Teddy Kentbut once, at Sunday School the day before he was taken seriously ill,and she had liked his looks. It had seemed that he liked hers, too, forshe caught him staring shyly at her over the intervening pews severaltimes. He was very handsome, Emily decided. She liked his thick,dark-brown hair and his black-browed blue eyes, and for the first timeit occurred to her that it might be rather nice to have a boy playmate,too. Not a “beau” of course. Emily hated the school jargon that calleda boy your “beau” if he happened to give you a pencil or an apple andpicked you out frequently for his partner in the games.
“Teddy’s nice but his mother is queer,” Ilse told her on their way tothe Tansy Patch. “She never goes out anywhere--not even to church--butI guess it’s because of the scar on her face. They’re not Blair Waterpeople--they’ve only been living at the Tansy Patch since last fall.They’re poor and proud and not many people visit them. But Teddy isawfully nice, so if his mother gives us some black looks we needn’tmind.”
Mrs. Kent gave them no black looks, though her reception was ratherdistant. Perhaps she, too, had received some orders from the doctor.She was a tiny creature, with enormous masses of dull, soft, silky,fawn hair, dark, mournful eyes, and a broad scar running slantwiseacross her pale face. Without the scar she must have been pretty, andshe had a voice as soft and uncertain as the wind in the tansy. Emily,with her instinctive faculty of sizing up people she met, felt thatMrs. Kent was not a happy woman.
The Tansy Patch was east of the Disappointed House, between the BlairWater and the sand-dunes. Most people considered it a bare, lonely,neglected place, but Emily thought it was fascinating. The littleclap-boarded house topped a small hill, over which tansy grew in ahard, flaunting, aromatic luxuriance, rising steeply and abruptlyfrom a main road. A straggling rail fence, almost smothered in wildrosebushes, bounded the domain, and a sagging, ill-used little gategave ingress from the road. Stones were let into the side of the hillfor steps up to the front door. Behind the house was a tumble-downlittle barn, and a field of flowering buckwheat, creamy green, slopingdown to the Blair Water. In front was a crazy veranda around which abrilliant band of red poppies held up their enchanted cups.
Teddy was unfeignedly glad to see them, and they had a happy afternoontogether. There was some colour in Teddy’s clear olive skin when itended and his dark-blue eyes were brighter. Mrs. Kent took in thesesigns greedily and asked the girls to come back, with an eagerness thatwas yet not cordiality. But they had found the Tansy Patch a charmingplace and were glad to go again. For the rest of the vacation there washardly a day when they did not go up to it--preferably in the long,smoky, delicious August evenings when the white moths sailed over thetansy plantation and the golden twilight faded into dusk and purpleover the green slopes beyond and fireflies lighted their goblin torchesby the pond. Sometimes they played games in the tansy patch, when Teddyand Emily somehow generally found themselves on the same side and thenno more than a match for agile, quick-witted Ilse; sometimes Teddytook them to the barn loft and showed them his little collection ofdrawings. Both girls thought them very wonderful without knowing inthe least how wonderful they really were. It seemed like magic to seeTeddy take a pencil and bit of paper and with a few quick strokes ofhis slim brown fingers bring out a sketch of Ilse or Emily or Smoke orButtercup, that looked ready to speak--or meow.
Smoke and Buttercup were the Tansy Patch cats. Buttercup was a chubby,yellow, delightful creature hardly out of kittenhood. Smoke was a bigMaltese and an aristocrat from the tip of his nose to the tip of histail. There was no doubt whatever that he belonged to the cat caste ofVere de Vere. He had emerald eyes and a coat of plush. The only whitething about him was an adorable dicky.
Emily thought of all the pleasant hours spent at the Tansy Patch thepleasantest were those, when, tired with play, they all three saton the crazy veranda steps in the mystery and enchantment of theborderland ’tween light and dark when the little clump of spruce behindthe barn looked like beautiful, dark, phantom trees. The clouds of thewest faded into grey and a great round yellow moon rose over the fieldsto be reflected brokenly in the pond, where the Wind Woman was makingwonderful, woven lights and shadows.
Mrs. Kent never joined them, though Emily had a creepy convictionthat she was watching them stealthily from behind the kitchen blind.Teddy and Ilse sang school ditties, and Ilse recited, and Emily toldstories; or they sat in happy silence, each anchored in some secretport of dreams, while the cats chased each other madly over the hilland through the tansy, tearing round and round the house like possessedcreatures. They would spring up at the children with sudden pounces andspring as suddenly away. Their eyes gleamed like jewels, their tailsswayed like plumes. They were palpitating with nervous, stealthy life.
“Oh, isn’t it good to be alive--like this?” Emily said once. “Wouldn’tit be dreadful if one had never lived?”
Still, existence was not wholly unclouded--Aunt Elizabeth took care ofthat. Aunt Elizabeth only permitted the visits to the Tansy Patch underprotest, and because Dr. Burnley had ordered them.
“Aunt Elizabeth does not aprove of Teddy,” Emily wrote in one of herletters to her father--which epistles were steadily mutiplying on theold garret sofa shelf. “The first time I asked her if I might go andplay with Teddy she looked at me _severely_ and said, Who is this Teddyperson. We do not know anything about these Kents. Remember, Emily,the Murrays do not assosiate with every one. I said I am a Starr--I amnot a Murray, you said so yourself. Dear Father I did not mean to beimpertnent but Aunt Elizabeth said I was and would not speak to me therest of the day. She seemed to think that was a very bad punishmentbut I did not mind it much only it is rather unpleasant to have yourown family preserve a disdaneful silence towards you. But since thenshe lets me go to the Tansy Patch because Dr. Burnley came and toldher to. Dr. Burnley has a _strange inflewence_ over Aunt Elizabeth. Ido not understand it. Rhoda said once that Aunt Elizabeth hoped Dr.Burnley and Aunt Laura would make a match of it--which, you know meansget married--but that is not so. Mrs. Thomas Anderson was here oneafternoon to tea. (Mrs. Thomas Anderson is a big fat woman and hergrandmother was a Murray and there is nothing else to say about _her_.)She asked Aunt Elizabeth if she thought Dr. Burnley would marry againand Aunt Elizabeth said no, he would not and she did not think it rightfor people to marry a second time. Mrs. Anderson said Sometimes I havethought he would take Laura. Aunt Elizabeth just swept her a hawtyglance. There is no use in denying it, there are times when I am veryproud of Aunt Elizabeth, even if I do not like her.
“Teddy is a very nice boy, Father. I think you would aprove of him.Should there be two p’s in aprove? He can make splendid picturesand he is going to be a famus artist some day, and then he is goingto paint my portrate. He keeps his pictures in the barn loft becausehis mother doesn’t like to see them. He can whistle just like a bird.The Tansy Patch is a _very quante_ place--espesially at night. I lovethe twilight there. We always have such fun in the twilight. The WindWoman makes herself small in the tansy just like a tiny, tiny fairy andthe cats are so queer and creepy and delightful then. They belong toMrs. Kent and Teddy is afraid to pet them much for fear she will drownthem. She drowned a kitten once because she thought he liked it betterthan her. But he didn’t because Teddy is _very much attatched_ to hismother. He washes the dishes for her and helps her in all the housework. Ilse says the boys in school call him sissy for that but I thinkit is noble and manley of him. Teddy wishes she would let him have adog but she wont. I have thought Aunt Elizabeth was tirannical butMrs. Kent is far worse in some ways. But then she loves Teddy and AuntElizabeth does not love me.
“But Mrs. Kent doesn’t like Ilse or me. She never says so but we _feel_it. She never asks us to stay to tea--and we’ve always been so politeto her. I believe she is jellus of us because Teddy likes us. Teddygave me the sweetest picture of the Blair Water he had painted on a bigwhite cowhawk shell but he said I mustn’t let his mother know about itbecause she would cry. Mrs. Kent is a very misterious person, very likesome people you read of in books. I like misterious people but not tooclose. Her eyes always look hungry though she has plenty to eat. Shenever goes anywhere because she has a scar on her face where she wasburned with a lamp exploding. It made my blood run cold, dear Father.How thankful I am that Aunt Elizabeth only burns candles. Some of theMurray tradishuns are very sensible. Mrs. Kent is very relijus--whatshe calls relijus. She prays even in the middle of the day. Teddy saysthat before he was born into this world he lived in another one wherethere were two suns, one red and one blue. The days were red and thenights blue. I don’t know where he got the idea but it sounds atractiveto me. And he says the brooks run honey instead of water. But what didyou do when you were thirsty, I said. Oh, we were never thirsty there.But I think I would _like_ to be thirsty because then cold water tastesso good. _I_ would like to live in the moon. It must be such a nicesilvery place.
“Ilse says Teddy ought to like her best because there is more fun inher than in me but that is not true. There is just as much fun in mewhen my conshence doesn’t bother me. I guess Ilse wants Teddy to likeher best but she is not a jellus girl.
“I am glad to say that Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura both aprove of myfriendship with Ilse. It is so seldom they aprove of the same thing.I am getting used to fighting with Ilse now and don’t mind it much.Besides I can fight pretty well myself when my blood is up. We fightabout once a week but we make up right away and Ilse says things wouldbe dull if there was never a row. I would like it better without rowsbut you can never tell what will make Ilse mad. She never gets madtwice over the same thing. She calls me dreadful names. Yesterday shecalled me a lousy lizard and a toothless viper. But somehow I didn’tmind it much because I knew I wasn’t lousy or toothless and she knewit too. I don’t call names because that is unladylike but I smile andthat makes Ilse far madder than if I skowled and stamped as she does,and that is why I do it. Aunt Laura says I must be careful not to pickup the words Ilse uses and try to set her a good example because thepoor child has no one to look after her propperly. I wish I could usesome of her words because they are so striking. She gets them from herfather. I think my aunts are too perticular. One night when the Rev.Mr. Dare was here to tea I used the word bull in my conversashun. Isaid Ilse and I were afraid to go through Mr. James Lee’s pasture wherethe old well was because he had a cross bull there. After Mr. Darehad gone Aunt Elizabeth gave me an awful skolding and told me I wasnever to use _that word_ again. But she had been talking of tigers attea--in connexshun with missionaries--and I can’t understand why it ismore disgraceful to talk about bulls than tigers. Of course bulls areferoshus animals but so are tigers. But Aunt Elizabeth says I am alwaysdisgracing them when they have company. When Mrs. Lockwood was herefrom Shrewsbury last week they were talking about Mrs. Foster Beck, whois a bride, and I said Dr. Burnley thought she was devilishly pretty.Aunt Elizabeth said EMILY in an awful tone. She was pale with rath.Dr. Burnley said it, I cryed, I am only kwoting. And Dr. Burnley didsay it the day I stayed to dinner with Ilse and Dr. Jameson was therefrom Shrewsbury. I saw Dr. Burnley in one of his rages that afternoonover something Mrs. Simms had done in his office. It was a groosomesight. His big yellow eyes blazed and he tore about and kicked over achair and threw a mat at the wall and fired a vase out of the windowand said _terrible things_. I sat on the sofa and stared at him likeone fassinated. It was so interesting I was sorry when he cooled downwhich he soon did because he is like Ilse and never stays mad long. Henever gets mad at Ilse though. Ilse says she wishes he would--it wouldbe better than being taken no notis of. She is as much of an orfan asI am, poor child. Last Sunday she went to church with her old fadedblue dress on. There was a tare right in front of it. Aunt Laura weppedwhen she came home and then spoke to Mrs. Simms about it because shedid not dare speak to Dr. Burnley. Mrs. Simms was cross and said itwas not her place to look after Ilses close but she said she had gotDr. Burnley to get Ilse a nice sprigged muslin dress and Ilse had gotegg stane on it, and when Mrs. Simms skolded her for being so carelessIlse flew into a rage and went upstairs and tore the muslin dress topieces, and Mrs. Simms said she wasn’t going to bother her head againabout a child like that and there was nothing for her to ware but herold blue but Mrs. Simms didn’t know it was tore. So I sneaked Ilsesdress over to New Moon and Aunt Laura mended it neetly and hid the tarewith a pocket. Ilse said she tore up her muslin dress one of the daysshe didn’t believe in God and didn’t care what she did. Ilse founda mouse in her bed one night and she just shook it out and jumpedin. Oh, how brave. I could never be as brave as that. It is not truethat Dr. Burnley never smiles. I have seen him do it but not often.He just smiles with his lips but not his eyes and it makes me feeluncomfortable. Mostly he laughs in a horrid sarkastic way like _JollyJim’s_ uncle.
“We had barley soup for dinner that day--very watery.
“Aunt Laura is giving me five cents a week for washing the dishes. Ican only spend one cent of it and the other four have to be put inthe toad bank in the sitting-room on the mantel. The toad is made ofbrass and sits on top of the bank and you put the cents in his mouthone at a time. He swallows them and they drop into the bank. It’s veryfassinating (I should not write fassinating again because you told meI must not use the same word too often but I cant think of any otherthat deskribes my feelings so well). The toad bank is Aunt Laura’s butshe said I could use it. I just hugged her. Of course I never hug AuntElizabeth. She is too rijid and bony. She does not aprove of Aunt Laurapaying me for washing dishes. I tremble to think what she would say ifshe knew Cousin Jimmy gave me a whole dollar on the sly last week.
“I wish he had not given me so much. It worrys me. It is an awfulresponsibility. It will be so diffikult to spend it wisely alsowithout Aunt Elizabeth finding out about it. I hope I shall neverhave a million dollars. I am sure it would crush me utterly. I keepmy dollar hid on the shelf with my letters and I put it in an oldenvelope and wrote on it Cousin Jimmy Murray gave me this so that if Idied suddenly and Aunt Elizabeth found it she would know I came by ithonestly.
“Now that the days are getting cool Aunt Elizabeth makes me wear mythick flannel petticoat. I hate it. It makes me so bunchy. But AuntElizabeth says I must wear it because you died of consumption. I wishclose could be both graceful and helthy. I read the story of Red RidingHood to-day. I think the wolf was the most intresting caracter in it.Red Riding Hood was a stupid little thing so easily fooled.
“I wrote two poems yesterday. One was short and entitelled LinesAdressed to a blue-eyed-grass flower gathered in the Old Orchard. Hereit is.
    Sweet little flower thy modest face    Is ever lifted tords the sky    And a reflexshun of its face    Is caught within thine own blue eye.    The meadow queens are tall and fair    The columbines are lovely too    But the poor talent I possess    Shall laurel thee my flower of blue.
“The other poem was long and I wrote it on a letter-bill. It is calledThe Monark of the Forest. The Monark is the big birch in Lofty John’sbush. I love that bush so much it hurts. Do you understand that kindof hurting. Ilse likes it too and we play there most of the time whenwe are not at the Tansy Patch. We have three paths in it. We call themthe To-day Road, the Yesterday Road and the To-morrow Road. The To-dayRoad is by the brook and we call it that because it is lovely now. TheYesterday Road is out in the stumps where Lofty John cut some treesdown and we call it that because it used to be lovely. The To-morrowRoad is just a tiny path in the maple clearing and we call it thatbecause it is going to be lovely some day, when the maples grow bigger.But oh Father dear I haven’t forgotten the dear old trees down home.I always think of them after I go to bed. But I am happy here. Itisn’t wrong to be happy, is it Father. Aunt Elizabeth says I got overbeing homesick very quick but I am often homesick _inside_. I have gotakwanted with Lofty John. Ilse is a great friend of his and often goesthere to watch him working in his carpenter shop. He says he has madeenough ladders to get to heaven without the priest but that is just hisjoke. He is really a very devowt Catholic and goes to the chapel atWhite Cross every Sunday. I go with Ilse though perhaps I ought not towhen he is an enemy of my family. He is of stately baring and refinedmanners--very sivil to me but I don’t always like him. When I ask hima serius question he always winks over my head when he ansers. Thatis insulting. Of course I never ask any questions on relijus subjectsbut Ilse does. She likes him but she says he would burn us all at thestake if he had the power. She asked him right out if he wouldn’tand he winked at me and said Oh, we wouldn’t burn nice pretty littleProtestants like you. We would only burn the old ugly ones. That was afrivellus reply. Mrs. Lofty John is a nice woman and not at all proud.She looks just like a little rosy rinkled apple.
“On rainy days we play at Ilse’s. We can slide down the bannisters anddo what we like. Nobody cares only when the doctor is home we have tobe quiet because he cant bear any noise in the house except what hemakes himself. The roof is flat and we can get out on it through a doorin the garret ceiling. It is very exiting to be up on the roof of ahouse. We had a yelling contest there the other night to see whichcould yell the loudest. To my surprise I found I could. You never cantell what you can do till you try. But too many people heard us andAunt Elizabeth was very angry. She asked me what made me do such athing. That is an okward question because often I cant tell what makesme do things. Sometimes I do them just to find out what I feel likedoing them. And sometimes I do them because I want to have some exitingthings to tell my grandchildren. Is it impropper to talk about haveinggrandchildren. I have discovered that it is impropper to talk abouthaveing children. One evening when people were here Aunt Laura said tome quite kindly What are you thinking so ernestly about, Emily, and Isaid I am picking names for my children. I mean to have ten. And afterthe company had gone Aunt Elizabeth said to Aunt Laura _icilly_ I thinkit will be better in the future Laura if you do _not_ ask that childwhat she is thinking of. If Aunt Laura doesnt I shall be sorry becausewhen I have an intresting thought I like to tell it.
“School begins again next week. Ilse is going to ask Miss Brownell ifI can sit with her. I intend to act as if Rhoda was not there at all.Teddy is going too. Dr. Burnley says he is well enough to go though hismother doesnt like the idea. Teddy says she never likes to have him goto school but she is glad that he hates Miss Brownell. Aunt Laura saysthe right way to end a letter to a dear friend is yours affeckshunately.
“So I am yours very affeckshunately.
                                “_Emily Byrd Starr._
“P. S. Because _you_ are my _very dearest friend still_, Father. Ilsesays she loves me best of anything in the world and her red leatherboots that Mrs. Simms gave her next.”



CHAPTER XIII
A DAUGHTER OF EVE

New Moon was noted for its apples and on that first autumn of Emily’slife there both the “old” and the “new” orchards bore a bumper crop.In the new were the titled and pedigreed apples; and in the old theseedlings, unknown to catalogues, that yet had a flavour wildly sweetand all their own. There was no taboo on any apple and Emily was freeto eat all she wanted of each and every kind,--the only prohibitionbeing that she must not take any to bed with her. Aunt Elizabeth, veryproperly, did not want her bed messed up with apple seeds; and AuntLaura had a horror of any one eating apples in the dark lest they mighteat an apple worm into the bargain. Emily, therefore, should have beenable fully to satisfy her appetite for apples at home; but there isa certain odd kink in human nature by reason of which the flavour ofthe apples belonging to somebody else is always vastly superior to ourown--as the crafty serpent of Eden very well knew. Emily, like mostpeople, possessed this kink, and consequently thought that nowhere werethere such delicious apples as those belonging to Lofty John. He was inthe habit of keeping a long row of apples on one of the beams in hisworkshop and it was understood that she and Ilse might help themselvesfreely whenever they visited that charming, dusty, shaving-carpetedspot. Three varieties of Lofty John’s apples were their especialfavourites--the “scabby apples,” that looked as if they had leprosy butwere of unsurpassed deliciousness under their queerly blotched skins;the “little red apples,” scarcely bigger than a crab, deep crimson allover and glossy as satin, that had such a sweet, nutty flavour; andthe big green “sweet apples” that children usually thought the best ofall. Emily considered that day wasted whose low descending sun had notbeheld her munching one of Lofty John’s big green sweets.
In the back of her mind Emily knew quite well that she should not begoing to Lofty John’s at all. To be sure, she had never been forbiddento go--simply because it had never occurred to her aunts that an inmateof New Moon could so forget the beloved old family feud between thehouses of Murray and Sullivan belonging to two generations back. It wasan inheritance that any proper Murray would live up to as a matter ofcourse. But when Emily was off with that wild little Ishmaelite of anIlse, traditions lost their power under the allurement of Lofty John’s“reds” and “scabs.”
She wandered rather lonesomely into his workshop one September eveningat twilight. She had been alone since she came from school; her auntsand Cousin Jimmy had gone to Shrewsbury, promising to be back bysunset. Ilse was away also, her father, prodded thereto by Mrs. Simms,having taken her to Charlottetown to get her a winter coat. Emily likedbeing alone very well at first. She felt quite important over beingin charge of New Moon. She ate the supper Aunt Laura had left on thecook-house dresser for her and she went into the dairy and skimmedsix lovely big pans of milk. She had no business at all to do thisbut she had always hankered to do it and this was too good a chanceto be missed. She did it beautifully and nobody ever knew--each auntsupposing the other had done it--and so she was never scolded for it.This does not point any particular moral, of course; in a proper yarnEmily should either have been found out and punished for disobedienceor been driven by an uneasy conscience to confess; but I am sorry--orought to be--to have to state that Emily’s conscience never worriedher about the matter at all. Still, she was doomed to suffer enoughthat night from an entirely different cause, to balance all her littlepeccadillos.
By the time the cream was skimmed and poured into the big stone crockand well stirred--Emily didn’t forget _that_, either--it was aftersunset and still nobody had come home. Emily didn’t like the idea ofgoing alone into the big, dusky, echoing house; so she hied her toLofty John’s shop, which she found unoccupied, though the plane haltedmidway on a board indicated that Lofty John had been working therequite recently and would probably return. Emily sat down on a roundsection of a huge log and looked around to see what she could get toeat. There was a row of “reds” and “scabs” clean across the side of theshop but no “sweet” among them; and Emily felt that what she neededjust then was a “sweet” and nothing else.
Then she spied one--a huge one--the biggest “sweet” Emily had everseen, all by itself on one of the steps of the stair leading up to theloft. She climbed up, possessed herself of it and ate it out of hand.She was gnawing happily at the core when Lofty John came in. He noddedto her with a seemingly careless glance around.
“Just been in to get my supper,” he said. “The wife’s away so I had toget it myself.”
He fell to planing in silence. Emily sat on the stairs, countingthe seeds of the big “sweet”--you told your fortunes by theseeds--listening to the Wind Woman whistling elfishly through aknot hole in the loft, and composing a “Deskripshun of Lofty John’sCarpenter Shop By Lantern Light,” to be written later on a letter-bill.She was lost in a mental hunt for an accurate phrase to picture theabsurd elongated shadow of Lofty John’s nose on the opposite wall whenLofty John whirled about, so suddenly that the shadow of his nose shotupward like a huge spear to the ceiling, and demanded in a startledvoice,
“What’s become av that big sweet apple that was on that stair?”
“Why--I--I et it,” stammered Emily.
Lofty John dropped his plane, threw up his hands, and looked at Emilywith a horrified face.
“The saints preserve us, child! Ye never et that apple--don’t tell meye’ve gone and et _that_ apple!”
“Yes, I did,” said Emily uncomfortably. “I didn’t think it was anyharm--I--”
“Harm! Listen to her, will you? That apple was poisoned for the rats!They’ve been plaguing me life out here and I had me mind made up tofinish their fun. And now you’ve et the apple--it would kill a dozen avye in a brace of shakes.”
Lofty John saw a white face and a gingham apron flash through theworkshop and out into the dark. Emily’s first wild impulse was toget home at once--before she dropped dead. She tore across the fieldthrough the bush and the garden and dashed into the house. It was stillsilent and dark--nobody was home yet. Emily gave a bitter little shriekof despair--when they came they would find her stiff and cold, black inthe face likely, everything in this dear world ended for her forever,all because she had eaten an apple which she thought she was perfectlywelcome to eat. It wasn’t fair--she didn’t want to die.
But she must. She only hoped desperately that some one would comebefore she was dead. It would be so terrible to die there all alone inthat great, big, empty New Moon. She dared not try to go anywhere forhelp. It was too dark now and she would likely drop dead on the way. Todie out there--alone--in the dark--oh, that would be too dreadful. Itdid not occur to her that anything could be done for her; she thoughtif you once swallowed poison that was the end of you.
With hands shaking in panic she got a candle lighted. It wasn’t quiteso bad then--you _could_ face things in the light. And Emily, pale,terrified, alone, was already deciding that this must be faced bravely.She must not shame the Starrs and the Murrays. She clenched her coldhands and tried to stop trembling. How long would it be before shedied, she wondered. Lofty John had said the apple would kill her in a“brace of shakes.” What did that mean? How long was a brace of shakes?Would it hurt her to die? She had a vague idea that poison did hurt youawfully. Oh; and just a little while ago she had been so happy! She hadthought she was going to live for years and write great poems and befamous like Mrs. Hemans. She had had a fight with Ilse the night beforeand hadn’t made it up yet--never could make it up now. And Ilse wouldfeel so terribly. She must write her a note and forgive her. Was theretime for that much? Oh, how cold her hands were! Perhaps that meantshe was dying already. She had heard or read that your hands turnedcold when you were dying. She wondered if her face was turning black.She grasped her candle and hurried up the stairs to the spare-room.There was a looking-glass there--the only one in the house hung lowenough for her to see her reflection if she tipped the bottom of itback. Ordinarily Emily would have been frightened to death at the merethought of going into that spare-room by dim, flickering candlelight.But the one great terror had swallowed up all lesser ones. She lookedat her reflection, amid the sleek, black flow of her hair, in theupward-striking light on the dark background of the shadowy room. Oh,she was pale as the dead already. Yes, that was a dying face--therecould be no doubt of it.
Something rose up in Emily and took possession of her--some inheritancefrom the good old stock behind her. She ceased to tremble--she acceptedher fate--with bitter regret, but calmly.
“I don’t want to die but since I have to I’ll die as becomes a Murray,”she said. She had read a similar sentence in a book and it came patto the moment. And now she must hurry. That letter to Ilse must bewritten. Emily went to Aunt Elizabeth’s room first, to assure herselfthat her right-hand top bureau drawer was quite tidy; then she flittedup the garret stairs to her dormer corner. The great place was full oflurking, pouncing shadows that crowded about the little island of faintcandlelight, but they had no terrors for Emily now.
“And to think I was feeling so bad to-day because my petticoat wasbunchy,” she thought, as she got one of her dear letter-bills--the lastshe would ever write on. There was no need to write to Father--shewould see him soon--but Ilse must have her letter--dear, loving, jolly,hot-tempered Ilse, who, just the day before had shrieked insultingepithets after her and who would be haunted by remorse all her life forit.
“Dearest Ilse,” wrote Emily, her hand shaking a little but her lipsfirmly set. “I am going to die. I have been poisoned by an apple LoftyJohn had put for rats. I will never see you again, but I am writingthis to tell you I love you and you are not to feel bad because youcalled me a skunk and a bloodthirsty mink yesterday. I forgive you, sodo not worry over it. And I am sorry I told you that you were beneathcontemt because I didn’t mean a word of it. I leave you all my share ofthe broken dishes in our playhouse and please tell Teddy good-bye forme. He will never be able to teach me how to put worms on a fish-hooknow. I promised him I would learn because I did not want him to thinkI was a coward but I am glad I did not for I know what the worm feelslike now. I do not feel sick yet but I dont know what the simptoms ofpoisoning are and Lofty John said there was enough to kill a dozen ofme so I cant have long to live. If Aunt Elizabeth is willing you canhave my necklace of Venetian beads. It is the only valuble possessionI have. Don’t let anybody do anything to Lofty John because he didnot mean to poison me and it was all my own fault for being sogreedy. Perhaps people will think he did it on purpose because I am aProtestant but I feel sure he did not and please tell him not to behawnted by remorse. I think I feel a pain in my stomach now so I guessthat the end draws ni. Fare well and remember her who died so young.
                         “Your own devoted,                                          “_Emily_.”
As Emily folded up her letter-bill she heard the sound of wheels in theyard below. A moment later Elizabeth and Laura Murray were confrontedin the kitchen by a tragic-faced little creature, grasping a gutteringcandle in one hand and a red letter-bill in the other.
“Emily, what is the matter?” cried Aunt Laura.
“I’m dying,” said Emily solemnly. “I et an apple Lofty John hadpoisoned for rats. I have only a few minutes to live, Aunt Laura.”
Laura Murray dropped down on the black bench with her hand at herheart. Elizabeth turned as pale as Emily herself.
“Emily, is this some play-acting of yours?” she demanded sternly.
“No,” cried Emily, quite indignantly. “It’s the truth. Do you supposea dying person would be play-acting? And oh, Aunt Elizabeth, pleasewill you give this letter to Ilse--and please forgive me for beingnaughty--though I wasn’t always naughty when you thought I was--anddon’t let any one see me after I’m dead if I turn black--especiallyRhoda Stuart.”
By this time Aunt Elizabeth was herself again.
“How long ago is it since you ate that apple, Emily?”
“About an hour.”
“If you’d eaten a poisoned apple an hour ago you’d be dead or sick bynow--”
“Oh,” cried Emily transformed in a second. A wild, sweet hope sprangup in her heart--was there a chance for her after all? Then she addeddespairingly, “But I felt another pain in my stomach just as I camedownstairs.”
“Laura,” said Aunt Elizabeth, “take this child out to the cook-houseand give her a good dose of mustard and water at once. It will do noharm and _may_ do some good, if there’s anything in this yarn of hers.I’m going down to the doctor’s--he may be back--but I’ll see Lofty Johnon the way.”
Aunt Elizabeth went out--and Aunt Elizabeth went out very quickly--ifit had been any one else it might have been said she ran. As forEmily--well, Aunt Laura gave her that emetic in short order and twominutes later Emily had no doubt at all that she was dying then andthere--and the sooner the better. When Aunt Elizabeth returned Emilywas lying on the sofa in the kitchen, as white as the pillow under herhead, and as limp as a faded lily.
“Wasn’t the doctor home?” cried Aunt Laura desperately.
“I don’t know--there’s no need of the doctor. I didn’t think there wasfrom the first. It was just one of Lofty John’s jokes. He thought he’dgive Emily a fright--just for fun--_his_ idea of fun. March you off tobed, Miss Emily. You deserve all you’ve got for going over there toLofty John’s at all and I don’t pity you a particle. I haven’t had sucha turn for years.”
“I _did_ have a pain in my stomach,” wailed Emily, in whom fright andmustard-and-water combined had temporarily extinguished all spirit.
“Any one who eats apples from dawn to dark must expect a few pains inher stomach. You won’t have any more to-night, I reckon--the mustardwill remedy that. Take your candle and go.”
“Well,” said Emily, getting unsteadily to her feet, “I _hate_ thatdod-gasted Lofty John.”
“Emily!” said both aunts together.
“He _deserves_ it,” said Emily vindictively.
“Oh, Emily--that dreadful word you used!” Aunt Laura seemed curiouslyupset about something.
“Why, what’s the matter with dod-gasted?” said Emily, quite mystified.“Cousin Jimmy uses it often, when things vex him. He used it to-day--hesaid that dod-gasted heifer had broken out of the graveyard pastureagain.”
“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth, with the air of one impaling herself onthe easiest horn of a dilemma, “your Cousin Jimmy is a man--and mensometimes use expressions, in the heat of anger, that are not properfor little girls.”
“But what _is_ the matter with dod-gasted?” persisted Emily. “It isn’ta swear word, is it? And if it isn’t, why can’t I use it?”
“It isn’t a--a ladylike word,” said Aunt Laura.
“Well, then, I won’t use it any more,” said Emily resignedly, “butLofty John _is_ dod-gasted.”
Aunt Laura laughed so much after Emily had gone upstairs that AuntElizabeth told her a woman of her age should have more sense.
“Elizabeth, you _know_ it was funny,” protested Laura.
Emily being safely out of sight, Elizabeth permitted herself a somewhatgrim smile.
“I told Lofty John a few plain truths--he’ll not go telling childrenthey’re poisoned again in a hurry. I left him fairly dancing with rage.”
Worn out, Emily fell asleep as soon as she was in bed; but an hourlater she awakened. Aunt Elizabeth had not yet come to bed so the blindwas still up and Emily saw a dear, friendly star winking down at her.Far away the sea moaned alluringly. Oh, it was nice just to be aloneand to be alive. Life tasted good to her again--“tasted like more,” asCousin Jimmy said. She could have a chance to write more letter-bills,and poetry--Emily already saw a yard of verses entitled “Thoughts ofOne Doomed to Sudden Death”--and play with Ilse and Teddy--scour thebarns with Saucy Sal, watch Aunt Laura skim cream in the dairy andhelp cousin Jimmy garden,--read books in Emily’s Bower and trot alongthe To-day Road--but _not_ visit Lofty John’s workshop. She determinedthat she would never have anything to do with Lofty John again afterhis diabolical cruelty. She felt so indignant with him for frighteningher--after they had been such good friends, too--that she could not goto sleep until she had composed an account of her death by poison, ofLofty John being tried for her murder and condemned to death, and ofhis being hanged on a gibbet as lofty as himself, Emily being presentat the dreadful scene, in spite of the fact that she was dead by hisact. When she had finally cut him down and buried him with obloquy--thetears streaming down her face out of sympathy for Mrs. Lofty John--sheforgave him. Very likely he was not dod-gasted after all.
She wrote it all down on a letter-bill in the garret the next day.



CHAPTER XIV
FANCY FED

In October Cousin Jimmy began to boil the pigs’ potatoes--unromanticname for a most romantic occupation--or so it appeared to Emily, whoselove of the beautiful and picturesque was satisfied as it had never yetbeen on those long, cool, starry twilights of the waning year at NewMoon.
There was a clump of spruce-trees in a corner of the old orchard,and under them an immense iron pot was hung over a circle of largestones--a pot so big that an ox could have been comfortably stewed init. Emily thought it must have come down from the days of fairy talesand been some giant’s porridge pot; but Cousin Jimmy told her that itwas only a hundred years old and old Hugh Murray had had it sent outfrom England.
“We’ve used it ever since to boil the potatoes for the New Moon pigs,”he said. “Blair Water folks think it old-fashioned; they’ve all gotboiler-houses now, with built-in boilers; but as long as Elizabeth’sboss at New Moon we’ll use this.”
Emily was sure no built-in boiler could have the charm of the big pot.She helped Cousin Jimmy fill it full of potatoes after she came fromschool; then, when supper was over, Cousin Jimmy lighted the fireunder it and puttered about it all the evening. Sometimes he pokedthe fire--Emily loved that part of the performance--sending gloriousstreams of rosy sparks upward into the darkness; sometimes he stirredthe potatoes with a long pole, looking, with his queer, forked greybeard and belted “jumper,” just like some old gnome or troll ofnorthland story mixing the contents of a magical caldron; and sometimeshe sat beside Emily on the grey granite boulder near the pot andrecited his poetry for her. Emily liked this best of all, for CousinJimmy’s poetry was surprisingly good--at least in spots--and CousinJimmy had “fit audience though few” in this slender little maiden withher pale eager face and rapt eyes.
They were an odd couple and they were perfectly happy together. BlairWater people thought Cousin Jimmy a failure and a mental weakling.But he dwelt in an ideal world of which none of them knew anything.He had recited his poems a hundred times thus, as he boiled the pigs’potatoes; the ghosts of a score of autumns haunted the clump of sprucesfor him. He was an odd, ridiculous figure enough, bent and wrinkled andunkempt, gesticulating awkwardly as he recited. But it was his hour;he was no longer “simple Jimmy Murray” but a prince in his own realm.For a little while he was strong and young and splendid and beautiful,accredited master of song to a listening, enraptured world. None of hisprosperous, sensible Blair Water neighbours ever lived through suchan hour. He would not have exchanged places with one of them. Emily,listening to him, felt vaguely that if it had not been for that unluckypush into the New Moon well, this queer little man beside her mighthave stood in the presence of kings.
But Elizabeth _had_ pushed him into the New Moon well and as aconsequence he boiled pigs’ potatoes and recited to Emily--Emily, whowrote poetry too, and loved these evenings so much that she could notsleep after she went to bed until she had composed a minute descriptionof them. The flash came almost every evening over something orother. The Wind Woman swooped or purred in the tossing boughs abovethem--Emily had never been so near to seeing her; the sharp air wasfull of the pleasant tang of the burning spruce cones Cousin Jimmyshovelled under the pot; Emily’s furry kitten, Mike II, frisked andscampered about like a small, charming demon of the night; the fireglowed with beautiful redness and allure through the gloom; there werenice whispery sounds everywhere; the “great big dark” lay spread aroundthem full of mysteries that daylight never revealed; and over all apurple sky powdered with stars.
Ilse and Teddy came, too, on some evenings. Emily always knew whenTeddy was coming, for when he reached the old orchard he whistled his“call”--the one he used just for her--a funny, dear little call, likethree clear bird notes, the first just medium pitch, the second higher,the third dropping away into lowness and sweetness long-drawn-out--likethe echoes in the _Bugle Song_ that went clearer and further in theirdying. That call always had an odd effect on Emily; it seemed to herthat it fairly drew the heart out of her body--and she _had_ to followit. She thought Teddy could have whistled her clear across the worldwith those three magic notes. Whenever she heard it she ran quicklythrough the orchard and told Teddy whether Cousin Jimmy wanted him ornot, because it was only on certain nights that Cousin Jimmy wantedanybody but her. He would never recite his poetry to Ilse or Teddy;but he told them fairy stories, and tales about the old dead-and-goneMurrays in the pond graveyard that were as queer, sometimes, as thefairy stories; and Ilse would recite too, doing better there thanshe ever did anywhere else; and sometimes Teddy lay sprawled out onthe ground beside the big pot and drew pictures by the light of thefire--pictures of Cousin Jimmy stirring the potatoes--pictures ofIlse and Emily dancing hand in hand around it like two small witches,pictures of Mike’s cunning, little, whiskered face peering around theold boulder, pictures of weird, vague faces crowding in the darknessoutside their enchanted circle. They had very wonderful evenings there,those four children.
“Oh, don’t you like the world at night, Ilse?” Emily once saidrapturously.
Ilse glanced happily around her--poor little neglected Ilse, who foundin Emily’s companionship what she had hungered for all her short lifeand who was, even now, being led by love into something of her rightfulheritage.
“Yes,” she said. “And I always believe there _is_ a God when I’m herelike this.”
Then the potatoes were done--and Cousin Jimmy gave each of them onebefore he mixed in the bran; they broke them in pieces on plates ofbirch-bark, sprinkled them with salt which Emily had cached in a smallbox under the roots of the biggest spruce, and ate them with gusto. Nobanquet of gods was ever as delicious as those potatoes. Then finallycame Aunt Laura’s kind, silvery voice calling through the frosty dark;Ilse and Teddy scampered homewards; and Emily captured Mike II and shuthim up safely for the night in the New Moon dog-house which had heldno dog for years, but was still carefully preserved and whitewashedevery spring. Emily’s heart would have broken if anything had happenedto Mike II.
“Old Kelly,” the tin pedlar, had given him to her. Old Kelly had comeround through Blair Water every fortnight from May to November forthirty years, perched on the seat of a bright red pedlar’s wagon andbehind a dusty, ambling, red pony of that peculiar gait and appearancepertaining to the ponies of country pedlars--a certain placid,unhasting leanness as of a nag that has encountered troubles of his ownand has lived them down by sheer patience and staying power. From thebright red wagon proceeded a certain metallic rumbling and clinkingas it bowled along, and two huge nests of tin pans on its flat,rope-encircled roof flashed back the sunlight so dazzlingly that OldKelly seemed the beaming sun of a little planetary system all his own.A new broom, sticking up aggressively at each of the four corners gavethe wagon a resemblance to a triumphal chariot. Emily hankered secretlyfor a ride in Old Kelly’s wagon. She thought it must be very delightful.
Old Kelly and she were great friends. She liked his red, clean-shavenface under his plug hat, his nice, twinkly, blue eyes, his brush ofupstanding, sandy hair, and his comical pursed-up mouth, the shape ofwhich was partly due to nature and partly to much whistling. He alwayshad a little three-cornered paper bag of “lemon drops” for her, or acandy stick of many colours, which he smuggled into her pocket whenAunt Elizabeth wasn’t looking. And he never forgot to tell her thathe supposed she’d soon be thinking of getting married--for Old Kellythought that the surest way to please a female creature of any age wasto tease her about getting married.
One day, instead of candy, he produced a plump grey kitten from theback drawer of his wagon and told her it was for her. Emily receivedthe gift rapturously, but after Old Kelly had rattled and clatteredaway Aunt Elizabeth told her they did not want any more cats at NewMoon.
“Oh, please let me keep it, Aunt Elizabeth,” Emily begged. “It won’tbe a bit of bother to you. _I_ have had experience in bringing upcats. And I’m so lonesome for a kitten. Saucy Sal is getting so wildrunning with the barn cats that I can’t ’sociate with her like I usedto do--and she never was nice to cuddle. _Please_, Aunt Elizabeth.”
Aunt Elizabeth would not and did not please. She was in a very badhumour that day, anyhow,--nobody knew just why. In such a mood shewas entirely unreasonable. She would not listen to anybody--Laura andCousin Jimmy had to hold their tongues, and Cousin Jimmy was bidden totake the grey kitten down to the Blair Water and drown it. Emily burstinto tears over this cruel command, and this aggravated Aunt Elizabethstill further. She was so cross that Cousin Jimmy dared not smuggle thekitten up to the barn as he had at first planned to do.
“Take that beast down to the pond and throw it in and come backand tell me you’ve done it,” said Elizabeth angrily. “I mean to beobeyed--New Moon is not going to be made a dumping-ground for Old JockKelly’s superfluous cats.”
Cousin Jimmy did as he was told and Emily would not eat any dinner.After dinner she stole mournfully away through the old orchard downthe pasture to the pond. Just why she went she could not have told,but she felt that go she must. When she reached the bank of the littlecreek where Lofty John’s brook ran into Blair Water, she heard piteousshrieks; and there, marooned on a tiny islet of sere marsh grass in thecreek, was an unhappy little beast, its soaking fur plastered againstits sides, shivering and trembling in the wind of the sharp autumnalday. The old oat-bag in which Cousin Jimmy had imprisoned it wasfloating out into the pond.
Emily did not stop to think, or look for a board, or count theconsequences. She plunged in the creek up to her knees, she waded outto the clump of grass and caught the kitten up. She was so hot withindignation that she did not feel the cold of the water or the chillof the wind as she ran back to New Moon. A suffering or torturedanimal always filled her with such a surge of sympathy that it liftedher clean out of herself. She burst into the cook-house where AuntElizabeth was frying doughnuts.
“Aunt Elizabeth,” she cried, “the kitten wasn’t drowned after all--andI _am_ going to keep it.”
“You’re not,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
Emily looked her aunt in the face. Again she felt that odd sensationthat had come when Aunt Elizabeth brought the scissors to cut her hair.
“Aunt Elizabeth, this poor little kitten is cold and starving, andoh, so miserable. It has been suffering for hours. It shall _not_ bedrowned again.”
Archibald Murray’s look was on her face and Archibald Murray’s tonewas in her voice. This happened only when the deeps of her being werestirred by some peculiarly poignant emotion. Just now she was in anagony of pity and anger.
When Elizabeth Murray saw her father looking at her out of Emily’slittle white face, she surrendered without a struggle, rage at herselfas she might afterwards for her weakness. It was her one vulnerablepoint. The thing might not have been so uncanny if Emily had resembledthe Murrays. But to see the Murray look suddenly superimposed like amask over alien features, was such a shock to her nerves that she couldnot stand up against it. A ghost from the grave could not have cowedher more speedily.
She turned her back on Emily in silence but Emily knew that she hadwon her second victory. The grey kitten stayed at New Moon and waxedfat and lovable, and Aunt Elizabeth never took the slightest noticeof its existence, save to sweep it out of the house when Emily was notabout. But it was weeks before Emily was really forgiven and she feltuncomfortable enough over it. Aunt Elizabeth could be a not ungenerousconqueror but she was very disagreeable in defeat. It was really justas well that Emily could not summon the Murray look at will.



CHAPTER XV
VARIOUS TRAGEDIES

Emily, obedient to Aunt Elizabeth’s command, had eliminated the word“bull” from her vocabulary. But to ignore the existence of bulls wasnot to do away with them--and specifically with Mr. James Lee’s Englishbull, who inhabited the big windy pasture west of Blair Water andwho bore a dreadful reputation. He was certainly an awesome lookingcreature and Emily sometimes had fearful dreams of being chased by himand being unable to move. And one sharp November day these dreams cametrue.
There was a certain well at the far end of the pasture concerningwhich Emily felt a curiosity, because Cousin Jimmy had told her adreadful tale about it. The well had been dug sixty years ago by twobrothers who lived in a little house which was built down near theshore. It was a very deep well, which was considered a curious thingin that low-lying land near pond and sea; the brothers had gone ninetyfeet before they found a spring. Then the sides of the well had beenstoned up--but the work never went further. Thomas and Silas Lee hadquarrelled over some trivial difference of opinion as to what kind ofa hood should be put over it; and in the heat of his anger Silas hadstruck Thomas on the head with his hammer and killed him.
The well-house was never built. Silas Lee was sent to prison formanslaughter and died there. The farm passed to another brother--Mr.James Lee’s father--who moved the house to the other end of it andplanked the well over. Cousin Jimmy added that Tom Lee’s ghost wassupposed to haunt the scene of his tragic death but he couldn’t vouchfor that, though he had written a poem on it. A very eerie poem it was,too, and made Emily’s blood run cold with a fearful joy when he recitedit to her one misty night by the big potato pot. Ever since she hadwanted to see the old well.
Her chance came one Saturday when she was prowling alone in the oldgraveyard. Beyond it lay the Lee pasture and there was apparently not asign of a bull in or about it. Emily decided to pay a visit to the oldwell and went skimming down the field against the sweep of the northwind racing across the gulf. The Wind Woman was a giantess that day anda mighty swirl she was stirring up along the shore; but as Emily drewnear the big sand-dunes they made a little harbour of calmness aroundthe old well.
Emily coolly lifted up one of the planks, knelt on the others andpeered down. Fortunately the planks were strong and comparativelynew--otherwise the small maiden of New Moon might have explored thewell more thoroughly than she desired to do. As it was, she could seelittle of it; huge ferns grew thickly out of the crevices among thestones of its sides and reached across it, shutting out the view ofits gloomy depths. Rather disappointed, Emily replaced the plank andstarted homeward. She had not gone ten steps before she stopped. Mr.James Lee’s bull was coming straight towards her and was less thantwenty yards away.
The shore fence was not far behind Emily, and she might possibly havereached it in time had she run. But she was incapable of running; asshe wrote that night in her letter to her father she was “parralised”with terror and could no more move than she could in her dreams of thisvery occurrence. It is quite conceivable that a dreadful thing mighthave happened then and there had not a certain boy been sitting on theshore fence. He had been sitting there unnoticed all the time Emily hadbeen peering into the well; now he sprang down.
Emily saw, or sensed, a sturdy body dashing past her. The owner thereofran to within ten feet of the bull, hurled a stone squarely into themonster’s hairy face, then sped off at right angles towards the sidefence. The bull, thus insulted, turned with a menacing rumble andlumbered off after this intruder.
“Run now!” screamed the boy over his shoulder to Emily.
Emily did not run. Terrified as she was, there was something in herthat would not let her run until she saw whether her gallant rescuermade good his escape. He reached his fence in the nick of time. Thenand not till then Emily ran too, and scrambled over the shore fencejust as the bull started back across the pasture, evidently determinedto catch somebody. Trembling, she made her way through the spiky grassof the sand-hills and met the boy at the corner. They stood and lookedat each other for a moment.
The boy was a stranger to Emily. He had a cheery, impudent, clean-cutface, with keen, grey eyes and plenty of tawny curls. He wore as fewclothes as decency permitted and had only the pretence of a hat. Emilyliked him; there was nothing of Teddy’s subtle charm in him but he hada certain forceful attraction of his own and he had just saved her froma terrible death.
“Thank you,” said Emily shyly, looking up at him with great grey eyesthat looked blue under her long lashes. It was a very effective lookwhich lost nothing of effectiveness from being wholly unconscious.Nobody had as yet told Emily how very winsome that shy, sudden,up-glance of hers was.
“Isn’t he a rip-snorter?” said the boy easily. He thrust his hands intohis ragged pockets and stared at Emily so fixedly that she dropped hereyes in confusion--thereby doing further damage with those demure lidsand silken fringes.
“He’s dreadful,” she said with a shudder. “And I was so scared.”
“Were you now? And me thinking you were full of grit to be standingthere like that looking at him cool as a cucumber. What’s it like to beafraid?”
“Weren’t _you_ ever afraid?” asked Emily.
“No--don’t know what it’s like,” said the boy carelessly, and a bitboastfully. “What’s your name?”
“Emily Byrd Starr.”
“Live round here?”
“I live at New Moon.”
“Where Simple Jimmy Murray lives?”
“He _isn’t_ simple,” cried Emily indignantly.
“Oh, all right. I don’t know him. But I’m going to. I’m going to hirewith him for chore boy for the winter.”
“I didn’t know,” said Emily, surprised. “Are you really?”
“Yep. I didn’t know it myself till just this minute. He was asking AuntTom about me last week but I didn’t mean to hire out then. Now I guessI will. Want to know my name?”
“Of course.”
“Perry Miller. I live with my old beast of an Aunt Tom down atStovepipe Town. Dad was a sea-captain and I uster sail with him when hewas alive--sailed everywhere. Go to school?”
“Yes.”
“I don’t--never did. Aunt Tom lives so far away. Anyhow, I didn’tthink I’d like it. Guess I’ll go now, though.”
“Can’t you read?” asked Emily wonderingly.
“Yes--some--and figger. Dad learned me some when he was alive. I hain’tbothered with it since--I’d ruther be down round the harbour. Greatfun there. But if I make up my mind to go to school I’ll learn likethunder. I s’pose you’re awful clever.”
“No--not very. Father said I was a genius, but Aunt Elizabeth says I’mjust queer.”
“What’s a genius?”
“I’m not sure. Sometimes it’s a person who writes poetry. _I_ writepoetry.”
Perry stared at her.
“Golly. I’ll write poetry too, then.”
“I don’t believe _you_ could write poetry,” said Emily--a littledisdainfully, it must be admitted. “Teddy can’t--and he’s _very_clever.”
“Who’s Teddy?”
“A friend of mine.” There was just a trace of stiffness in Emily’svoice.
“Then,” said Perry, folding his arms across his breast and scowling,“I’m going to punch this friend of yours’ head for him.”
“You’re not,” cried Emily. She was very indignant and quite forgot forthe moment that Perry had rescued her from the bull. She tossed her ownhead and started homeward. Perry turned too.
“May as well go up and see Jimmy Murray about hiring ’fore I go home,”he said. “Don’t be mad, now. If you don’t want anybody’s head punched Iwon’t punch it. Only you’ve gotter like me, too.”
“Why, of course I’ll like you,” said Emily, as if there could be noquestion about it. She smiled her slow, blossoming smile at Perry andthereby reduced him to hopeless bondage.
Two days later Perry Miller was installed as chore boy at New Moon andin a fortnight’s time Emily felt as if he must have been there always.
“Aunt Elizabeth didn’t want Cousin Jimmy to hire him,” she wrote toher father, “because he was one of the boys who did a dreadful thingone night last fall. They changed all the horses that were tied tothe fence one Sunday night when preaching was going on and when folkscame out the confushun was awful. Aunt Elizabeth said it wouldn’t besafe to have him round the place. But Cousin Jimmy said it was awfulhard to get a chore boy and that we ode Perry something for saving mylife from the bull. So Aunt Elizabeth gave in and lets him sit at thetable with us but he has to stay in the kitchen in the evenings. Therest of us are in the sitting-room, but I am allowed to go out andhelp Perry with his lessons. He can only have one candle and the lightis very dim. It keeps us snuffing it all the time. It is great fun tosnuff candles. Perry is head of his class in school already. He isonly in the third book all-though he is nearly twelve. Miss Brownellsaid something sarkastik to him the first day in school and he justthrew back his head and laughed loud and long. Miss Brownell gave him awhipping for it but she has never been sarkastik to him again. She doesnot like to be laughed at I can see. Perry isn’t afraid of anything. Ithought he might not go to school any more when she whipped him but hesays a little thing like that isn’t going to keep him from getting aneducashun since he has made up his mind to it. He is very determined.
“Aunt Elizabeth is determined too. But she says Perry is stubborn. I amteaching Perry grammar. He says he wants to learn to speak properly. Itold him he should not call his Aunt Tom an old beast but he said hehad to because she wasn’t a young beast. He says the place he livesin is called Stovepipe Town because the houses have no chimneys, onlypipes sticking out of the roof, but he would live in a manshun someday. Aunt Elizabeth says I ought not to be so friendly with a hiredboy. But he is a nice boy though his manners are crood. Aunt Laurasays they are crood. I don’t know what it means but I guess it meanshe always says what he thinks right out and eats beans with his knife.I like Perry but in a different way from Teddy. Isn’t it funny, dearFather, how many kinds of ways of liking there are? I don’t think Ilselikes him. She makes fun of his ignerance and turns up her nose at himbecause his close are patched though her own close are queer enough.Teddy doesnt like him much and he drew such a funny picture of Perryhanging by his heels from a gallos. The face looked like Perrys andstill it didn’t. Cousin Jimmy said it was a carrycachure and laughedat it but I dared not show it to Perry for fear he would punch Teddyshead. I showed it to Ilse and she got mad and tore it in two. I cantimagine why.
“Perry says he can recite as well as Ilse and could draw pictures tooif he put his mind to it. I can see he doesnt like to think anybody cando anything he cant. But he cant see the wallpaper in the air like Ican though he tries until I fear he will strane his eyes. He can makebetter speeches than any of us. He says he used to mean to be a sailerlike his father but now he thinks he will be a lawyer when he growsup and go to parlament. Teddy is going to be an artist if his motherwill let him, and Ilse is going to be a concert reciter--there isanother name but I don’t know how it is spelled--and I am going to be apoetess. I think we are a tallented crowd. Perhaps that is a vane thingto say, dear Father.
“A very terrible thing happened the day before yesterday. On Saturdaymorning we were at family prayers, all kneeling quite solemn around thekitchen. I just looked at Perry once and he made such a funny face atme that I laughed right out loud before I could help it. (_That_ wasnot the terrible thing.) Aunt Elizabeth was _very_ angry. I would nottell that it was Perry made me laugh because I was afraid he might besent away if I did. So Aunt Elizabeth said I was to be punished andI was not let go to Jennie Strangs party in the afternoon. (It was adreadful disappointment but _it_ was not the terrible thing either.)Perry was away with Cousin Jimmy all day and when he came home at nighthe said to me, very feerce, Who has been making you cry. I said I hadbeen crying--a little but not much--because I was not let go to theparty because I had laughed at prayers. And Perry marched right up toAunt Elizabeth and told her it was all his fault that I laughed. AuntElizabeth said I should not have laughed anyhow, but Aunt Laura was_greevously_ upset and said my punishment had been far too severe; andshe said that she would let me ware her pearl ring to school Monday tomake up for it. I was enraptured for it is a lovely ring and no othergirl has one. As soon as roll call was over Monday morning I put up myhand to ask Miss Brownell a question but really to show off my ring.That was wikked pride and I was punished. At recess Cora Lee, one ofthe big girls in the sixth class came and asked me to let her ware thering for a while. I didnt want to but she said if I didnt she would getall the girls in my class to send me to coventry (which is a dreadfulthing, dear Father, and makes you feel like an outcast). So I let herand she kept it on till the afternoon recess and then she came andtold me she had lost it in the brook. (This was the terrible thing).Oh, Father dear, I was nearly wild. I dared not go home and face AuntLaura. I had promised her I would be so careful of the ring. I thoughtI might earn money to get her another ring but when I figgered it outon my slate I knew I would have to wash dishes for twenty years to doit. I wepped in my despare. Perry saw me and after school he marched upto Cora Lee and said You fork over that ring or I’ll tell Miss Brownellabout it. And Cora Lee forked it over, very meek and said I was goingto give it to her anyhow. I was just playing a joke and Perry said,Dont you play any more jokes on Emily or I’ll joke you. It is verycomforting to have such a champeen! I tremble to think what it wouldhave been like if I had had to go home and tell Aunt Laura I had losther ring. But it was crewel of Cora Lee to tell me she had lost it whenshe had not and harrow up my mind so. I could not be so crewel to anorfan girl.
“When I got home I looked in the glass to see if my hair had turnedwhite. I am told that sometimes hapens. But it hadnt.
“Perry knows more geograffy than any of us because he has been nearlyeverywhere in the world with his father. He tells me such fassinatingstories after his lessons are done. He talks till the candle is burnedto the last inch and then he uses that to go to bed with up the blackhole into the kitchen loft because Aunt Elizabeth will not let him havemore than one candle a night.
“Ilse and I had a fight yesterday about which we’d rather be Joan ofArc or Frances Willard. We didn’t begin it as a fight but just as anargewment but it ended that way. _I_ would rather be Frances Willardbecause she is alive.
“We had the first snow yesterday. I made a poem on it. This is it.
    Along the snow the sunbeams glide    Earth is a peerless, gleaming bride,    Dripping with dimonds, clad in traling white,    No bride was ever half so fair and bright.
“I read it to Perry and he said he could make poetry just as good andhe said right off,
    Mike has made a long row    Of tracks across the snow.
Now isnt that as good as yours. I didnt think it was because you couldsay it just as well in prose. But when you talk of peerless gleamingbrides in prose it sounds funny. Mike _did_ make a row of little tracksright across the barn field and they looked so pretty, but not sopretty as the mice tracks in some flour Cousin Jimmy spilled on thegranary floor. They are the dearest little things. They _look_ likepoetry.
“I am sorry winter has come because Ilse and I cant play in our housein Lofty Johns bush any more till spring or outside at the Tansy Patch.Sometimes we play indoors at the Tansy Patch but Mrs. Kent makes usfeel queer. She sits and watches us all the time. So we dont go onlywhen Teddy coaxes very hard. And the pigs have been killed, poorthings, so Cousin Jimmy doesnt boil for them any more. But there isone consolashun I do not have to ware a sunbonnet to school now. AuntLaura made me such a pretty red hood with ribbons on it at which AuntElizabeth looked skornfully saying it was extravagant. I like schoolhere better every day but I cant like Miss Brownell. She isnt fair.She told us she would give the one who wrote the best composishun apink ribbon to wear from Friday night to Monday. I wrote The BrooksStory about the brook in Lofty John’s bush--all its advenshures andthoughts--and Miss Brownell said I must have copyed it and Rhoda Stuartgot the ribbon. Aunt Elizabeth said You waste enough time writing trashI think you might have won that ribbon. She was mortifyed (I think)because I had disgraced New Moon by not getting it but I did not tellher what had happened. Teddy says a _good sport_ never whines overlosing. I want to be a good sport. Rhoda is so hateful to me now. Shesays she is surprised that a New Moon girl should have a hired boy fora bow. That is very silly because Perry is not my bow. Perry told hershe had more gab than sense. That was not polite but it is true. Oneday in class Rhoda said the moon was situated east of Canada. Perrylaughed right out and Miss Brownell made him stay in at recess but shenever said anything to Rhoda for saying such a ridiklus thing. But themeanest thing Rhoda said was that she had forgiven me for the way Ihad used her. That made my blood boil when I hadnt done anything to beforgiven for. The idea.
“We have begun to eat the big beef ham that hung in the southwestcorner of the kitchen.
“The other Wednesday night Perry and I helped Cousin Jimmy pick a roadthrough the turnips in the first cellar. We have to go through it tothe second cellar because the outside hatch is banked up now. It wasgreat fun. We had a candle stuck up in a hole in the wall and it madesuch lovely shadows and we could eat all the apples we wanted from thebig barrel in the corner and the spirit moved Cousin Jimmy to recitesome of his poetry as he threw the turnips.
“I am reading The Alhambra. It belongs to our book case. Aunt Elizabethdoes not like to say it isnt fit for me to read because it was one ofher fathers books, but I dont believe she aproves because she knitsvery furiusly and looks black at me over her glasses. Teddy lent meHans Andersons stories. I love them--only I always think of a differentend for the Ice Maiden and save Rudy.
“They say Mrs. John Killegrew has swallowed her wedding-ring. I wonderwhat she did that for.
“Cousin Jimmy says there is to be an eklips of the sun in December. Ihope it wont interfear with Chrismas.
“My hands are chapped. Aunt Laura rubs mutton tallow on them everynight when I go to bed. It is hard to write poetry with chapped hands.I wonder if Mrs. Hemans ever had chapped hands. It does not mentionanything like that in her biograffy.
“Jimmy Ball has to be a minister when he grows up. His mother toldAunt Laura that she consekrated him to it in his cradle. I wonder howshe did it.
“We have brekfast by candlelight now and I like it.
“Ilse was up here Sunday afternoon and we went up in the garret andtalked about God, because that is propper on Sundays. We have to bevery careful what we do on Sundays. It is a traddishun of New Moon tokeep Sundays very holy. Grandfather Murray was very strikt. CousinJimmy told me a story about him. They always cut the wood for Sundayon Saturday night, but one time they forgot and there was no wood onSunday to cook the dinner, so Grandfather Murray said you must not cutwood on Sundays, boys, but just break a little with the back of theaxe. Ilse is very curious about God although she doesnt believe in Himmost of the time and doesnt like to talk about Him but still wants tofind out about Him. She says she thinks she might like Him if she knewHim. She spells his name with a Capital G now because it is best to beon the safe side. _I_ think God is just like my flash, only _it_ lastsonly a second and He lasts always. We talked so long we got hungry andI went down to the sitting-room cubbord and got two donuts. I forgotAunt Elizabeth had told me I could not have donuts between meals. Itwas not stealing it was just forgetting. But Ilse got mad at the lastand said I was a she jakobite (whatever that is) and a thief and thatno Christian would steal donuts from her poor old aunt. So I went andconfessed to Aunt Elizabeth and she said I was not to have a donut atsupper. It was hard to see the others eating them. I thought Perryet his very quick but after supper he bekoned me out doors and gaveme half his donut which he had kept for me. He had rapped it in hishangkerchief which was not very clean but I et it because I did notwant to hurt his feelings.
“Aunt Laura says Ilse has a nice smile. I wonder if I have a nicesmile. I looked at the glass in Ilse’s room and smiled but it did notseem to me very nice.
“Now the nights have got cold Aunt Elizabeth always puts a gin jar fullof hot water in the bed. I like to put my toes against it. That is allwe use the gin jar for nowadays. But Grandfather Murray used to keepreal gin in it.
“Now that the snow has come Cousin Jimmy cant work in his garden anymore and he is very lonesome. I think the garden is just as pretty inwinter as in summer. There are such pretty dimples and baby hills wherethe snow has covered up the flower beds. And in the evenings it is allpink and rosy at sunset and by moonlight it is like dreamland. I liketo look out of the sitting-room window at it and watch the rabbitscandles floting in the air above it and wonder what all the littleroots and seeds are thinking of down under the snow. And it gives me alovely creepy feeling to look at it through the red glass in the frontdoor.
“There is a beautiful fringe of isikles along the cook-house roof. Butthere will be much more beautiful things in heaven. I was reading aboutAnzonetta to-day and it made me feel relijus. Good night, my dearest offathers.
                                           “_Emily._
“P. S. That doesnt mean that I have any other Father. It is just a wayof saying _very very_ dear.
                                        “_E. B. S._”



CHAPTER XVI
CHECK FOR MISS BROWNELL

Emily and Ilse were sitting out on the side bench of Blair Water schoolwriting poetry on their slates--at least, Emily was writing poetry andIlse was reading it as she wrote and occasionally suggesting a rhymewhen Emily was momentarily stuck for one. It may as well be admittedhere and now that they had no business whatever to be doing this. Theyshould have been “doing sums,” as Miss Brownell supposed they were.But Emily never did sums when she took it into her black head to writepoetry, and Ilse hated arithmetic on general principles. Miss Brownellwas hearing the geography class at the other side of the room, thepleasant sunshine was showering in over them through the big window,and everything seemed propitious for a flight with the muses. Emilybegan to write a poem about the view from the school window.
It was quite a long time since she had been allowed to sit out on theside bench. This was a boon reserved for those pupils who had foundfavour in Miss Brownell’s cold eyes--and Emily had never been one ofthose. But this afternoon Ilse had asked for both herself and Emily,and Miss Brownell had let both go, not being able to think of anyvalid reason for permitting Ilse and refusing Emily--as she would haveliked to do, for she had one of those petty natures which never forgetor forgive any offence. Emily, on her first day of school, had, soMiss Brownell believed, been guilty of impertinence and defiance--andsuccessful defiance at that. This rankled in Miss Brownell’s mindstill and Emily felt its venom in a score of subtle ways. She neverreceived any commendation--she was a target for Miss Brownell’s sarcasmcontinually--and the small favours that other girls received never cameher way. So this opportunity to sit on the side bench was a pleasingnovelty.
There were points about sitting on the side bench. You could see allover the school without turning your head--and Miss Brownell could notsneak up behind you and look over your shoulder to see what you were upto; but in Emily’s eyes the finest thing about it was that you couldlook right down into the “school bush,” and watch the old spruces wherethe Wind Woman played, the long grey-green trails of moss hangingfrom the branches, like banners of Elfland, the little red squirrelsrunning along the fence, and the wonderful white aisles of snow wheresplashes of sunlight fell like pools of golden wine; and there was onelittle opening in the trees through which you could see right overthe Blair Water valley to the sand-hills and the gulf beyond. To-daythe sand-hills were softly rounded and gleaming white under the snow,but beyond them the gulf was darkly, deeply blue with dazzling whitemasses of ice like baby icebergs, floating about in it. Just to lookat it thrilled Emily with a delight that was unutterable but whichshe yet must try to utter. She began her poem. Fractions were utterlyforgotten--what had numerators and denominators to do with thosecurving bosoms of white snow--that heavenly blue--those crossed darkfir tips against the pearly skies--those ethereal woodland aisles ofpearl and gold? Emily was lost to her world--so lost that she did notknow the geography class had scattered to their respective seats andthat Miss Brownell, catching sight of Emily’s entranced gaze sky-wardsas she searched for a rhyme, was stepping softly towards her. Ilse wasdrawing a picture on her slate and did not see her or she would havewarned Emily. The latter suddenly felt her slate drawn out of her handand heard Miss Brownell saying:
“I suppose you have finished those sums, Emily?”
Emily had not finished even one sum--she had only covered her slatewith verses--verses that Miss Brownell must not see--_must not_ see!Emily sprang to her feet and clutched wildly after her slate. But MissBrownell, with a smile of malicious enjoyment on her thin lips, held itbeyond her reach.
“What is this? It does not look--exactly--like fractions. ‘Lines on theView--v-e-w--from the Window of Blair Water School.’ Really, children,we seem to have a budding poet among us.”
The words were harmless enough, but--oh, the hateful sneer that ranthrough the tone--the contempt, the mockery that was in it! It searedEmily’s soul like a whiplash. Nothing was more terrible to her thanthe thought of having her beloved “poems” read by stranger eyes--cold,unsympathetic, derisive, stranger eyes.
“Please--please, Miss Brownell,” she stammered miserably, “don’t readit--I’ll rub it off--I’ll do my sums right away. Only please don’t readit. It--it isn’t anything.”
Miss Brownell laughed cruelly.
“You are too modest, Emily. It is a whole slateful of--_poetry_--thinkof that, children--_poetry_. We have a pupil in this school who canwrite--_poetry_. And she does not want us to read this--_poetry_. I amafraid Emily is selfish. I am sure we should all enjoy this--_poetry_.”
Emily cringed every time Miss Brownell said “_poetry_,” with thatjeering emphasis and that hateful pause before it. Many of the childrengiggled, partly because they enjoyed seeing a “Murray of New Moon”grilled, partly because they realized that Miss Brownell expected themto giggle. Rhoda Stuart giggled louder than any one else; but JennieStrang, who had tormented Emily on her first day at school, refused togiggle and scowled blackly at Miss Brownell instead.
Miss Brownell held up the slate and read Emily’s poem aloud, in asing-song nasal voice, with absurd intonations and gestures that madeit seem a very ridiculous thing. The lines Emily had thought the finestseemed the most ridiculous. The other pupils laughed more than ever andEmily felt that the bitterness of the moment could never go out of herheart. The little fancies that had been so beautiful when they came toher as she wrote were shattered and bruised now, like torn and mangledbutterflies--“vistas in some fairy dream,” chanted Miss Brownell,shutting her eyes and wagging her head from side to side. The gigglesbecame shouts of laughter.
“Oh,” thought Emily, clenching her hands, “I wish--I wish the bearsthat ate the naughty children in the Bible would come and eat _you_.”
There were no nice, retributive bears in the school bush, however, andMiss Brownell read the whole “poem” through. She was enjoying herselfhugely. To ridicule a pupil always gave her pleasure and when thatpupil was Emily of New Moon, in whose heart and soul she had alwayssensed something fundamentally different from her own, the pleasure wasexquisite.
When she reached the end she handed the slate back to thecrimson-cheeked Emily.
“Take your--_poetry_, Emily,” she said.
Emily snatched the slate. No slate “rag” was handy but Emily gavethe palm of her hand a fierce lick and one side of the slate waswiped off. Another lick--and the rest of the poem went. It had beendisgraced--degraded--it must be blotted out of existence. To the end ofher life Emily never forgot the pain and humiliation of that experience.
Miss Brownell laughed again.
“What a pity to obliterate such--_poetry_, Emily,” she said. “Supposeyou do those sums now. They are not--_poetry_, but I am in thisschool to teach arithmetic and I am not here to teach the art ofwriting--_poetry_. Go to your own seat. Yes, Rhoda?”
For Rhoda Stuart was holding up her hand and snapping her fingers.
“Please, Miss Brownell,” she said, with distinct triumph in her tones,“Emily Starr has a whole bunch of poetry in her desk. She was readingit to Ilse Burnley this morning while you thought they were learninghistory.”
Perry Miller turned around and a delightful missile, compounded ofchewed paper and known as a “spit pill,” flew across the room andstruck Rhoda squarely in the face. But Miss Brownell was already atEmily’s desk, having reached it one jump before Emily herself.
“Don’t touch them--you have no _right_!” gasped Emily frantically.
But Miss Brownell had the “bunch of poetry” in her hands. She turnedand walked up to the platform. Emily followed. Those poems were verydear to her. She had composed them during the various stormy recesseswhen it had been impossible to play out of doors and written them downon disreputable scraps of paper borrowed from her mates. She had meantto take them home that very evening and copy them on letter-bills. Andnow this horrible woman was going to read them to the whole jeering,giggling school.
But Miss Brownell realized that the time was too short for that.She had to content herself with reading over the titles, with someappropriate comments.
Meanwhile Perry Miller was relieving his feelings by bombarding RhodaStuart with spit pills, so craftily timed that Rhoda had no idea fromwhat quarter of the room they were coming and so could not “tell” onany one. They greatly interfered with her enjoyment of Emily’s scrape,however. As for Teddy Kent, who did not wage war with spit pills butpreferred subtler methods of revenge, he was busy drawing something ona sheet of paper. Rhoda found the sheet on her desk the next morning;on it was depicted a small, scrawny monkey, hanging by its tail froma branch; and the face of the monkey was as the face of Rhoda Stuart.Whereat Rhoda Stuart waxed wroth, but for the sake of her own vanitytore the sketch to tatters and kept silence regarding it. She did notknow that Teddy had made a similar sketch, with Miss Brownell figuringas a vampirish-looking bat, and thrust it into Emily’s hand as theyleft school.
“‘The Lost Dimond--a Romantic Tale,’” read Miss Brownell. “‘Lines ona Birch Tree’--looks to me more like lines on a very dirty piece ofpaper, Emily--‘Lines Written on a Sundial in our Garden’--ditto--‘Linesto my Favourite Cat’--another romantic _tail_, I presume--‘Ode toIlse’--‘Thy neck is of a wondrous pearly sheen’--hardly that, I shouldsay. Ilse’s neck is very sunburned--‘A Deskripshun of Our Parlour,’‘The Violets Spell’--I hope the violet _spells_ better than you do,Emily--‘The Disappointed House’--
    “‘Lilies lifted up white cups    For the bees to _dr--r--i--i--nk_.’”
“I didn’t write it that way!” cried tortured Emily.
“‘Lines to a Piece of Brokade in Aunt Laura’s Burow Drawer,’ ‘Farewellon Leaving Home,’ ‘Lines to a Spruce Tree’--‘It keeps off heat and sunand glare, Tis a goodly tree I ween’--are you quite sure that you knowwhat ‘ween’ means, Emily?--‘Poem on Mr. Tom Bennet’s Field’--‘Poem onthe Vew from Aunt Elizabeth’s Window’--you are strong on ‘v-e-w-s,’Emily--‘Epitaff on a Drowned Kitten,’ ‘Meditashuns at the tomb of mygreat great grandmother’--poor lady--‘To my Northern Birds’--‘Linescomposed on the bank of Blair Water gazing at the stars’--h’m--h’m--
    “‘Crusted with uncounted gems,    Those stars so distant, cold and true,’
Don’t try to pass those lines off as your own, Emily. You couldn’t havewritten them.”
“I did--I did!” Emily was white with sense of outrage. “And I’vewritten lots far better.”
Miss Brownell suddenly crumpled the ragged little papers up in her hand.
“We have wasted enough time over this trash,” she said. “Go to yourseat, Emily.”
She moved towards the stove. For a moment Emily did not realizeher purpose. Then, as Miss Brownell opened the stove door, Emilyunderstood and bounded forward. She caught at the papers and tore themfrom Miss Brownell’s hand before the latter could tighten her grasp.
“You _shall not_ burn them--you shall not have them,” gasped Emily. Shecrammed the poems into the pocket of her “baby apron” and faced MissBrownell in a kind of calm rage. The Murray look was on her face--andalthough Miss Brownell was not so violently affected by it as AuntElizabeth had been, it nevertheless gave her an unpleasant sensation,as of having roused forces with which she dared not tamper further.This tormented child looked quite capable of flying at her, tooth andclaw.
“Give me those papers, Emily,”--but she said it rather uncertainly.
“I will not,” said Emily stormily. “They are mine. You have no right tothem. I wrote them at recesses--I didn’t break any rules. You”--Emilylooked defiantly into Miss Brownell’s cold eyes--“You are an unjust,tyrannical _person_.”
Miss Brownell turned to her desk.
“I am coming up to New Moon to-night to tell your Aunt Elizabeth ofthis,” she said.
Emily was at first too much excited over saving her precious poetry topay much heed to this threat. But as her excitement ebbed cold dreadflowed in. She knew she had an unpleasant time ahead of her. But at allevents they should not get her poems--not one of them, no matter whatthey did to _her_. As soon as she got home from school she flew to thegarret and secreted them on the shelf of the old sofa.
She wanted terribly to cry but she would not. Miss Brownell was comingand Miss Brownell should _not_ see her with red eyes. But her heartburned within her. Some sacred temple of her being had been desecratedand shamed. And more was yet to come, she felt wretchedly sure. AuntElizabeth was certain to side with Miss Brownell. Emily shrank from theimpending ordeal with all the dread of a sensitive, fine strung naturefacing humiliation. She would not have been afraid of justice; but sheknew at the bar of Aunt Elizabeth and Miss Brownell she would not havejustice.
“And I can’t write Father about it,” she thought, her little breastheaving. The shame of it all was too deep and intimate to be writtenout, and so she could find no relief for her pain.
They did not have supper at New Moon in winter time until Cousin Jimmyhad finished his chores and was ready to stay in for the night. SoEmily was left undisturbed in the garret.
From the dormer window she looked down on a dreamland scene that wouldordinarily have delighted her. There was a red sunset behind the white,distant hills, shining through the dark trees like a great fire; therewas a delicate blue tracery of bare branch shadows all over the crustedgarden; there was a pale, ethereal alpenglow all over the southeasternsky; and presently there was a little, lovely new moon in the silveryarch over Lofty John’s bush. But Emily found no pleasure in any of them.
Presently she saw Miss Brownell coming up the lane, under the whitearms of the birches, with her mannish stride.
“If my father was alive,” said Emily, looking down at her, “you wouldgo away from this place with a flea in your ear.”
The minutes passed, each seeming very long to Emily. At last Aunt Lauracame up.
“Your Aunt Elizabeth wants you to come down to the kitchen, Emily.”
Aunt Laura’s voice was kind and sad. Emily fought down a sob. She hatedto have Aunt Laura think she had been naughty, but she could not trustherself to explain. Aunt Laura would sympathize and sympathy wouldbreak her down. She went silently down the two long flights of stairsbefore Aunt Laura and out to the kitchen.
The supper table was set and the candles were lighted. The bigblack-raftered kitchen looked spookish and weird, as it always didby candlelight. Aunt Elizabeth sat rigidly by the table and her facewas very hard. Miss Brownell sat in the rocking-chair, her pale eyesglittering with triumphant malice. There seemed something baleful andpoisonous in her very glance. Also, her nose was very red--which didnot add to her charm.
Cousin Jimmy, in his grey jumper, was perched on the edge of thewood-box, whistling at the ceiling, and looking more gnome-like thanever. Perry was nowhere to be seen. Emily was sorry for this. Thepresence of Perry, who was on her side, would have been a great moralsupport.
“I am sorry to say, Emily, that I have been hearing some very badthings about your behaviour in school to-day,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
“No, I don’t think you are sorry,” said Emily, gravely.
Now that the crisis had come she found herself able to confront itcoolly--nay, more, to take a curious interest in it under all hersecret fear and shame, as if some part of her had detached itself fromthe rest and was interestedly absorbing impressions and analyzingmotives and describing settings. She felt that when she wrote aboutthis scene later on she must not forget to describe the odd shadows thecandle under Aunt Elizabeth’s nose cast upward on her face, producing arather skeletonic effect. As for Miss Brownell, could _she_ ever havebeen a baby--a dimpled, fat, laughing baby? The thing was unbelievable.
“Don’t speak impertinently to _me_,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
“You see,” said Miss Brownell, significantly.
“I don’t mean to be impertinent, but you are _not_ sorry,” persistedEmily. “You are angry because you think I have disgraced New Moon, butyou are a little glad that you have got some one to agree with you thatI’m bad.”
“What a _grateful_ child,” said Miss Brownell--flashing her eyes up atthe ceiling--where they encountered a surprising sight. Perry Miller’shead--and no more of him--was stuck down out of the “black hole” andon Perry Miller’s upside-down face was a most disrespectful and impishgrimace. Face and head disappeared in a flash, leaving Miss Brownellstaring foolishly at the ceiling.
“You have been behaving disgracefully in school,” said Aunt Elizabeth,who had not seen this by-play. “I am ashamed of you.”
“It was not as bad as that, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily steadily. “Yousee it was this way--”
“I don’t want to hear anything more about it,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
“But you must,” cried Emily. “It isn’t fair to listen only to _her_side. I was a little bad--but not so bad as she says--”
“Not another word! I have heard the whole story,” said Aunt Elizabethgrimly.
“You heard a pack of lies,” said Perry, suddenly sticking his head downthrough the black hole again.
Everybody jumped--even Aunt Elizabeth, who at once became angrier thanever because she _had_ jumped.
“Perry Miller, come down out of that loft instantly!” she commanded.
“Can’t,” said Perry laconically.
“At once, I say!”
“Can’t,” repeated Perry, winking audaciously at Miss Brownell.
“Perry Miller, come down! I _will_ be obeyed. I am mistress here_yet_.”
“Oh, all right,” said Perry cheerfully. “If I must.”
He swung himself down until his toes touched the ladder. Aunt Lauragave a little shriek. Everybody else seemed to be stricken dumb.
“I’ve just got my wet duds off,” Perry was saying cheerfully, wavinghis legs about to get a foothold on the ladder while he hung to thesides of the black hole with his elbows. “Fell into the brook when Iwas watering the cows. Was going to put on dry ones--but just as yousay--”
“Jimmy,” implored poor Elizabeth Murray, surrendering at discretion._She_ could not cope with the situation.
“Perry, get back into that loft and get your clothes on this minute!”ordered Cousin Jimmy.
The bare legs shot up and disappeared. There was a chuckle as mirthfuland malicious as an owl’s beyond the black hole. Aunt Elizabeth gave aconvulsive gasp of relief and turned to Emily. She was determined toregain ascendancy and Emily must be thoroughly humbled.
“Emily, kneel down here before Miss Brownell and ask her pardon foryour conduct to-day,” she said.
Into Emily’s pale cheek came a scarlet protest. She could not dothis--she would ask pardon of Miss Brownell but not on her knees. Tokneel to this cruel woman who had hurt her so--she could not--would notdo it. Her whole nature rose up in protest against such a humiliation.
“Kneel down,” repeated Aunt Elizabeth.
Miss Brownell looked pleased and expectant. It would be very satisfyingto see this child who had defied her kneeling before her as a penitent.Never again, Miss Brownell felt, would Emily be able to look levellyat her with those dauntless eyes that bespoke a soul untamable andfree, no matter what punishment might be inflicted upon body or mind.The memory of this moment would always be with Emily--she could neverforget that she had knelt in abasement. Emily felt this as clearly asMiss Brownell did and remained stubbornly on her feet.
“Aunt Elizabeth, _please_ let me tell my side of the story,” shepleaded.
“I have heard all I wish to hear of the matter. You will do as I say,Emily, or you will be outcast in this house until you do. No one willtalk to you--play with you--eat with you--have anything to do with youuntil you have obeyed me.”
Emily shuddered. _That_ was a punishment she could not face. To be cutoff from her world--she knew it would bring her to terms before long.She might as well yield at once--but, oh, the bitterness, the shame ofit!
“A human being should not kneel to any one but God,” said Cousin Jimmy,unexpectedly, still staring at the ceiling.
A sudden strange change came over Elizabeth Murray’s proud, angry face.She stood very still, looking at Cousin Jimmy--stood so long that MissBrownell made a motion of petulant impatience.
“Emily,” said Aunt Elizabeth in a different tone, “I was wrong--I shallnot ask you to kneel. But you must apologize to your teacher--and Ishall punish you later on.”
Emily put her hands behind her and looked straight into Miss Brownell’seyes again.
“I am sorry for anything I did to-day that was wrong,” she said, “and Iask your pardon for it.”
Miss Brownell got on her feet. She felt herself cheated of a legitimatetriumph. Whatever Emily’s punishment would be she would not have thesatisfaction of seeing it. She could have shaken “simple Jimmy Murray”with a right good will. But it would hardly do to show all she felt.Elizabeth Murray was not a trustee but she was the heaviest ratepayerin New Moon and had great influence with the School Board.
“I shall excuse your conduct if you behave yourself in future, Emily,”she said coldly. “_I_ feel that I have only done my duty in putting thematter before your aunt. No, thank you, Miss Murray, I cannot stay tosupper--I want to get home before it is too dark.”
“God speed all travellers,” said Perry cheerfully, climbing down hisladder--this time with his clothes on.
Aunt Elizabeth ignored him--she was not going to have a scene with ahired boy before Miss Brownell. The latter switched herself out andAunt Elizabeth looked at Emily.
“You will eat your supper alone to-night, Emily, in the pantry--youwill have bread and milk only. And you will not speak one word toanyone until to-morrow morning.”
“But you won’t forbid me to think?” said Emily anxiously.
Aunt Elizabeth made no reply but sat haughtily down at the suppertable. Emily went into the pantry and ate her bread and milk, with theodour of the delicious sausages the others were eating for savour.Emily liked sausages, and New Moon sausages were the last word insausages. Elizabeth Burnley had brought the recipe out from the OldCountry and its secret was carefully guarded. And Emily was hungry. Butshe had escaped the unbearable, and things might be worse. It suddenlyoccurred to her that she would write an epic poem in imitation of _TheLay Of The Last Minstrel_. Cousin Jimmy had read _The Lay_ to her lastSaturday. She would begin the first canto right off. When Laura Murraycame into the pantry, Emily, her bread and milk only half eaten, wasleaning her elbows on the dresser, gazing into space, with faintlymoving lips and the light that never was on land or sea in her youngeyes. Even the aroma of sausages was forgotten--was she not drinkingfrom a fount of Castaly?
“Emily,” said Aunt Laura, shutting the door, and looking very lovinglyupon Emily out of her kind blue eyes, “you can talk to _me_ allyou want to. I don’t like Miss Brownell and I don’t think you werealtogether in the wrong--although of course you shouldn’t be writingpoetry when you have sums to do. And there are some ginger cookies inthat box.”
“I don’t want to talk to any one, dear Aunt Laura--I’m too happy,” saidEmily dreamily. “I’m composing an epic--it is to be called _The WhiteLady_, and I’ve got twenty lines of it made already--and two of themare thrilling. The heroine wants to go into a convent and her fatherwarns her that if she does she will never be able to
    Come back to the life you gave    With all its pleasures to the grave.
Oh, Aunt Laura, when I composed those lines the flash came to me. Andginger cookies are nothing to me any more.”
Aunt Laura smiled again.
“Not just now perhaps, dear. But when the moment of inspiration haspassed it will do no harm to remember that the cookies in the box havenot been counted and that they are as much mine as Elizabeth’s.”



CHAPTER XVII
LIVING EPISTLES

“DEAR FATHER:
“O, I have such an exiting thing to tell you. I have been the heroin ofan adventure. One day last week Ilse asked me if I would go and stayall night with her because her father was away and wouldn’t be hometill very late and Ilse said she wasn’t fritened but very lonesome. SoI asked Aunt Elizabeth if I could. I hardly dared hope, dear Father,that she would let me, for she doesn’t aprove of little girls beingaway from home at night but to my surprise she said I could go verykindly. And then I heard her say in the pantry to Aunt Laura It isa shame the way the doctor leaves that poor child so much alone atnights. It is _wikked_ of him. And Aunt Laura said The poor man iswarped. You know he was not a bit like that before his wife--and thenjust as it was getting intresting Aunt Elizabeth gave Aunt Laura anudge and said s-s-s-h, little pitchers have big ears. I knew she meantme though my ears are not big, only pointed. I do wish I could find outwhat Ilse’s mother did. It worrys me after I go to bed. I lie awake forever so long thinking about it. Ilse has no idea. Once she asked herfather and he told her (in a _voice of thunder_) never to mention _thatwoman_ to him again. And there is something else that worrys me too. Ikeep thinking of Silas Lee who killed his brother at the old well. Howdreadful the poor man must have felt. And what is it to be warped.
“I went over to Ilses and we played in the garret. I like playing therebecause we dont have to be careful and tidy like we do in our garret.Ilses garret is very untidy and cant have been dusted for years. Therag room is worse than the rest. It is boarded off at one end ofthe garret and it is full of old close and bags of rags and brokenfurniture. I dont like the smell of it. The kitchen chimney goes upthrough it and things hang round it (or did). For all this is in thepast now, dear Father.
“When we got tired playing we sat down on an old chest and talked. Thisis splendid in daytime I said but it must be awful queer at night.Mice, said Ilse,--and spiders and gosts. I dont believe in gosts Isaid skornfully. There isnt any such thing. (But maybe there is forall that, dear Father.) I believe this garret is hawnted, said Ilse.They say garrets always are. Nonsense I said. You know dear Father itwould not do for a New Moon person to believe in gosts. But I feltvery queer. Its easy to talk said Ilse beginning to be mad (though Iwasnt trying to run down her garret) but you wouldnt stay here alone atnight. I wouldnt mind it a bit I said. Then I dare you to do it saidIlse. I dare you to come up here at bedtime and sleep here all night.Then I saw I was in an awful skrape Father dear. It is a foolish thingto bost. I knew not what to do. It was dreadful to think of sleepingalone in that garret but if I didnt Ilse would always cast it up tome whenever we fought and worse than that she would tell Teddy and hewould think me a coward. So I said proudly Ill do it Ilse Burnley andIm not afraid to either. (But oh I was--inside.) The mice will run overyou said Ilse. O I wouldnt be you for the world. It was mean of Ilseto make things worse than they were. But I could feel she admired metoo and that helped me a great deal. We dragged an old feather bed outof the rag room and Ilse gave me a pillow and half her close. It wasdark by this time and Ilse wouldnt go up into the garret again. So Isaid my prayers very carefully and then I took a lamp and started up.I am so used to candles now that the lamp made me nervus. Ilse said Ilooked scared to death. My knees shook dear Father but for the honnorof the Starrs (and the Murrays too) I went on. I had undressed in Ilsesroom, so I got right into bed and blew out the lamp. But I couldnt goto sleep for a long time. The moonlight made the garret look weerd. Idont know exactly what weerd means but I feel the garret was it. Thebags and old close hanging from the beams looked like creatures. Ithought I need not be fritened. The angels are here. But then I feltas if I would be as much fritened of angels as of anything else. AndI could hear rats and mice scrambling over things. I thought What if arat was to run over me, and then I thought that next day I would writeout a descripshon of the garret by moonlight and my feelings. At last Iheard the doctor driving in and then I heard him knocking round in thekitchen and I felt better and before very long I went to sleep and Idreamed a dreadful dream. I dreamed the door of the rag room opened anda big newspaper came out and chased me all around the garret. And thenit went on fire and I could smell the smoke plain as plain and it wasjust on me when I skreamed and woke up. I was sitting right up in bedand the newspaper was gone but I could smell smoke still. I looked atthe rag room door and smoke was coming out under it and I saw firelightthrough the cracks of the boards. I just yelled at the top of my voiceand tore down to Ilses room and she rushed across the hall and woke herfather. He said dam but he got right up and then all three of us keptrunning up and down the garret stairs with pails of water and we madean awful mess but we got the fire out. It was just the bags of woolthat had been hanging close to the chimney that had caught fire. Whenall was over the doctor wiped the persperation from his manly brow andsaid That was a close call. A few minutes later would have been toolate. I put on a fire when I came in to make a cup of tea and I supposethose bags must have caught fire from a spark. I see theres a holehere where the plaster has tumbled out. I must have this whole placecleaned out. How in the world did you come to diskover the fire, Emily.I was sleeping in the garret I said. Sleeping in the garret said thedoctor, what in--what the--_what_ were you doing there. Ilse dared me Isaid. She said Id be too scared to stay there and I said I wouldnt. Ifell asleep and woke up and smelled smoke. You little devil, said thedoctor. I suppose it was a dreadful thing to be called a devil butthe doctor looked at me so admiringly that I felt as if he was payingme a compelment. He has queer ways of talking. Ilse says the only timehe ever said a kind thing to her was once when she had a sore throathe called her “a poor little animal” and looked as if he was sorry forher. I feel sure Ilse feels dreadfully bad because her father doesntlike her though she pretends she does not care. But oh dear Fatherthere is more to tell. Yesterday the Shrewsbury _Weekly Times_ cameand in the Blair Notes it told all about the fire at the doctors andsaid it had been fortunately diskovered in time by Miss Emily Starr. Icant tell you what I felt like when I saw my name in the paper. I felt_famus_. And I never was called Miss in ernest before.
“Last Saturday Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura went to Shrewsbury forthe day and left Cousin Jimmy and me to keep house. We had such funand Cousin Jimmy let me skim all the milk pans. But after dinnerunexpekted company came and there was no cake in the house. That wasa dreadful thing. It never happened before in the annels of New Moon.Aunt Elizabeth had toothache all day yesterday and Aunt Laura was awayat Priest Pond visiting Great Aunt Nancy, so no cake was made. I prayedabout it and then I went to work and made a cake by Aunt Laura’s receetand it turned out all right. Cousin Jimmy helped me set the table andget supper, and I poured the tea and never slopped any over in thesaucers. You would have been proud of me Father. Mrs. Lewis took asecond piece of cake and said I would know Elizabeth Murrays cake ifI found it in central Africa. I said not a word for the honnor of thefamily. But I felt very proud. I had saved the Murrays from disgrace.When Aunt Elizabeth came home and heard the tale she looked grim andtasted a piece that was left and then she said Well, you have got_some_ Murray in you anyway. That is the first time Aunt Elizabeth hasever praised me. She had three teeth out so they will not ache anymore. I am glad for her sake. Before I went to bed I got the cook bookand picked out all the things Id like to make. Queen Pudding, Sea-foamSauce, Blackeyed Susans, Pigs In Blankets. They sound just lovely.
“I can see such beautiful fluffy white clouds over Lofty Johns bush.I wish I could sore up and drop right into them. I cant believe theywould be wet and messy like Teddy says. Teddy cut my initials and histogether on the Monark of The Forest but somebody has cut them out. Idon’t know whether it was Perry or Ilse.
“Miss Brownell hardly ever gives me good deportment marks now andAunt Elizabeth is much displeased on Friday nights but Aunt Lauraunderstands. I wrote an account of the afternoon when Miss Brownellmade fun of my poems and put it in an old envelope and wrote AuntElizabeths name on it and put it among my papers. If I die ofconsumption Aunt Elizabeth will find it and know the rites of it andmourn that she was so unjust to me. But I don’t think I will diebecause Im getting much fatter and Ilse told me she heard her fathertell Aunt Laura I would be handsome if I had more color. Is it wrong towant to be handsome, dearest Father. Aunt Elizabeth says it is and whenI said to her Wouldn’t _you_ like to be handsome, Aunt Elizabeth, sheseemed anoyed about something.
“Miss Brownell has had a spite at Perry ever since that evening andtreats him very mean but he is meek and says he wont kick up any fussin school because he wants to learn and get ahead. He keeps saying hisrymes are as good as mine and I know they are not and it exassperatesme. If I do not pay attention all the time in school Miss Brownell saysI suppose you are composing--poetry Emily and then everybody laughs.No not everybody. I must not exagerate. Teddy and Perry and Ilse andJennie never laugh. It is funny that I like Jennie so well now and Ihated her so that first day in school. Her eyes are not piggy afterall. They are small but they are jolly and twinkly. She is quite poplarin school. I do hate Frank Barker. He took my new reader and wrote in abig sprawly way all over the front page
    Steal not this book for fear of shame    For on it is the owners name    And when you die the Lord will say    Where is that book you stole away    And when you say you do not know    The Lord will say go down below.
“That is not a refined poem and besides it is not the rite way to speakabout God. I tore out the leaf and burned it and Aunt Elizabeth wasangry and even when I explained why her rath was not apeased. Ilse saysshe is going to call God Alla after this. I think it is a nicer namemyself. It is so soft and doesn’t sound so stern. But I fear its notrelijus enough.
                                            “MAY 20.
“Yesterday was my birthday dear Father. It will soon be a year since Icame to New Moon. I feel as if I had always lived here. I have growntwo inches. Cousin Jimmy measured me by a mark on the dairy door. Mybirthday was very nice. Aunt Laura made a lovely cake and gave me abeautiful new white pettycoat with an embroidered flounce. She had runa blue ribbon through it but Aunt Elizabeth made her pull it out. AndAunt Laura also gave me that piece of pink satin brokade in her burowdrawer. I have longed for it ever since I saw it but never hoped topossess it. Ilse asked me what I meant to do with it but I dont meanto do anything with it. Only keep it up here in the garret with mytreasures and look at it, because it is beautiful. Aunt Elizabeth gaveme a dixonary. That was a useful present. I feel I ought to like it.You will soon notice an improovement in my spelling, I hope. The onlytrouble is when I am writing something interesting I get so exitedit is just awful to have to stop and hunt up a word to see how it isspelled. I looked up ween in it and Miss Brownell was right. I did notknow what it really meant. It rymed so well with sheen and I thought itmeant to behold or see but it means to think. Cousin Jimmy gave me abig thick blank book. I am so proud of it. It will be so nice to writepieces in. But I will still use the letter-bills to write to you, dearFather, because I can fold each one up by itself and adress it like areal letter. Teddy gave me a picture of myself. He painted it in watercolors and called it The Smiling Girl. I look as if I was listeningto something that made me very happy. Ilse says it flatters me. Itdoes make me better looking than I am but not any better looking thanI would be if I could have a bang. Teddy says he is going to paint areal big picture of me when he grows up. Perry walked all the way toShrewsbury to get me a necklace of pearl beads and lost it. He had nomore money so he went home to Stovepipe Town and got a young hen fromhis Aunt Tom and gave me that. He is a very persistent boy. I am tohave all the eggs the hen lays to sell the pedler for myself. Ilse gaveme a box of candy. I am only going to eat one piece a day to make itlast a long time. I wanted Ilse to eat some but she said she wouldntbecause it would be mean to help eat a present you had given and Iinsisted and then we fought over it and Ilse said I was a caterwawlingquadruped (which was ridiklus) and didn’t know enough to come in whenit rained. And I said I knew enough to have some manners at least. Ilsegot so mad she went home but she cooled off soon and came back forsupper.
“It is raining tonight and it sounds like fairies feet dancing overthe garret roof. If it had not rained Teddy was going to come down andhelp me look for the Lost Dimond. Wouldnt it be splendid if we couldfind it.
“Cousin Jimmy is fixing up the garden. He lets me help him and I have alittle flower bed of my own. I always run out first thing every morningto see how much the things have grown since yesterday. Spring is sucha happyfying time isnt it, Father. The little Blue People are all outround the summer house. That is what Cousin Jimmy calls the violets andI think it is lovely. He has names like that for all the flowers. Theroses are the Queens and the June lilies are the Snow Ladies and thetulips are the Gay Folk and the daffodils are the Golden Ones and theChina Asters are My Pink Friends.
“Mike II is here with me, sitting on the window-sill. Mike is a smeecat. Smee is not in the dictionary. It is a word I invented myself. Icould not think of any English word which just describes Mike II so Imade this up. It means sleek and glossy and soft and fluffy all in oneand something else besides that I cant express.
“Aunt Laura is teaching me to sew. She says I must learn to make a hemon muslin that can’t be seen (tradishun). I hope she will teach me howto make point lace some day. All the Murrays of New Moon have beennoted for making point lace (I mean all the women Murrays). None of thegirls in school can make point lace. Aunt Laura says she will make mea point lace hangkerchief when I get married. All the New Moon brideshad point lace hangkerchiefs except my mother who ran away. But youdidnt mind her not having one did you Father. Aunt Laura talks a goodbit about my mother to me but not when Aunt Elizabeth is around. AuntElizabeth never mentions her name. Aunt Laura wants to show me Mothersroom but she has never been able to find the key yet because AuntElizabeth keeps it hid. Aunt Laura says Aunt Elizabeth loved my mothervery much. You would think she would love her daughter some wouldntyou. But she doesnt. She is just bringing me up as a duty.
                                            “JUNE 1.
“DEAR FATHER:
“This has been a very important day. I wrote my first letter, Imean the first letter that was really to go in the mail. It was toGreat-Aunt Nancy who lives at Priest Pond and is very old. She wroteAunt Elizabeth and said I might write now and then to a poor old woman.My heart was touched and I wanted to. Aunt Elizabeth said We might aswell let her. And she said to me You must be careful to write a niceletter and I will read it over when it is written. If you make a goodimpression on Aunt Nancy she may do something for you. I wrote theletter very carefully but it didn’t sound a bit like me when it wasfinished. I couldn’t write a good letter when I knew Aunt Elizabeth wasgoing to read it. I felt paralized.
                                            “JUNE 7.
“Dear Father, my letter did not make a good impression on Great-AuntNancy. She did not answer it but she wrote Aunt Elizabeth that I mustbe a very stupid child to write such a stupid letter. I feel insultedbecause I am not stupid. Perry says he feels like going to Priest Pondand knocking the daylights out of Great-Aunt Nancy. I told him he mustnot talk like that about my family, and anyhow I dont see how knockingthe daylights out of Great-Aunt Nancy would make her change her opinionabout me being stupid. (I wonder what daylights are and how you knockthem out of people.)
“I have three cantos of _The White Lady_ finished. I have the heroinimured in a convent and I dont know how to get her out because Iam not a Catholic. I suppose it would have been better if I hada Protestant heroin but there were no Protestants in the days ofshivalry. I might have asked Lofty John last year but this year I cantbecause Ive never spoken to him since he played that horrid joke onme about the apple. When I meet him on the road I look straight aheadjust as lofty as he does. I have called my pig after him to get square.Cousin Jimmy has given me a little pig for my own. When it is sold Iam to have the money. I mean to give some for missionaries and put therest in the bank to go to my educashun. And I thought if I ever hada pig I would call it Uncle Wallace. But now it does not seem to mepropper to call pigs after your uncles even if you dont like them.
“Teddy and Perry and Ilse and I play we are living in the days ofshivalry and Ilse and I are distressed damsels reskued by galantknites. Teddy made a splendid suit of armor out of old barrel stavesand then Perry made a better one out of old tin boilers hammered flatwith a broken saucepan for a helmit. Sometimes we play at the TansyPatch. I have a queer feeling that Teddys mother hates me this summer.Last summer she just didnt like me. Smoke and Buttercup are not therenow. They disappeared misteriously in the winter. Teddy says he feelssure his mother poisoned them because she thought he was getting toofond of them. Teddy is teaching me to whistle but Aunt Laura says itis unladylike. So many jolly things seem to be unladylike. Sometimes Ialmost wish my aunts were infidels like Dr. Burnly. _He_ never botherswhether Ilse is unladylike or not. But no, it would not be good mannersto be an infidel. It would not be a New Moon tradishun.
“Today I taught Perry that he must not eat with his knife. He wantsto learn all the _rules of etiket_. And I am helping him learn arecitation for school examination day. I wanted Ilse to do it but shewas mad because he asked me first and she wouldnt. But she shouldbecause she is a far better reciter than I am. I am too nervus.
                                           “JUNE 14.
“Dear Father, we have composition in school now and I learned todaythat you put in things like this “ ” when you write anything anybodyhas said. I didnt know that before. I must go over all my letters toyou and put them in. And after a question you must put a mark like this? and when a letter is left out a postroffe which is a comma up inthe air. Miss Brownell is sarkastic but she _does_ teach you things.I am putting that down because I want to be fair even if I do hateher. And she is interesting although she is not nice. I have writtena descripshun of her on a letter-bill. I like writing about people Idon’t like better than about those I do like. Aunt Laura is nicer tolive with than Aunt Elizabeth, but Aunt Elizabeth is nicer to writeabout. I can deskribe _her_ fawlts but I feel wikked and ungrateful ifI say anything that is not compelmentary about dear Aunt Laura. AuntElizabeth has locked your books away and says I’m not to have them tillI’m grown up. Just as if I wouldn’t be careful of them, dear Father.She says I wouldn’t because she found that when I was reading one ofthem I put a tiny pencil dot under every beautiful word. It didn’t hurtthe book a bit, dear Father. Some of the words were dingles, pearled,musk, dappled, intervales, glen, bosky, piping, shimmer, crisp,beechen, ivory. I think those are all lovely words, Father.
“Aunt Laura lets me read her copy of A Pilgrims Progress on Sundays. Icall the big hill in the road to White Cross the Delectable Mountainbecause it is such a beautiful one.
“Teddy lent me 3 books of poetry. One of them was Tennyson and I havelearned The Bugle Song off by heart so I will always have it. One wasMrs. Browning. She is lovely. I would like to meet her. I suppose Iwill when I die but that may be a long time away. The other was justone poem called Sohrab and Rustum. After I went to bed I cried overit. Aunt Elizabeth said “what are you sniffling about?” I wasn’tsniffling--I was weeping sore. She made me tell her and then she said“You must be crazy.” But I couldn’t go to sleep until I had thought outa different end for it--a happy one.
                                           “JUNE 25.
“DEAR FATHER:
“There has been a dark shadow over this day. I dropped my cent inchurch. It made a dreadful noise. I felt as if everybody looked at me.Aunt Elizabeth was much annoyed. Perry dropped his too soon after. Hetold me after church he did it on purpose because he thought it wouldmake me feel better but it didn’t because I was afraid the peoplewould think it was me dropping mine again. Boys do such queer things.I hope the minister did not hear because I am beginning to like him. Inever liked him much before last Tuesday. His family are all boys andI suppose he doesn’t understand little girls very well. Then he calledat New Moon. Aunt Laura and Aunt Elizabeth were both away and I was inthe kitchen alone. Mr. Dare came in and sat down on Saucy Sal who wasasleep in the rocking-chair. He was comfortable but Saucy Sal wasn’t.He didn’t sit on her stomach. If he had I suppose he would have killedher. He just sat on her legs and tail. Sal yowled but Mr. Dare is alittle deaf and didn’t hear her and I was too shy to tell him. ButCousin Jimmy came in just as he was asking me if I knew my catechismand said “Catechism, is it? Lawful heart, man, listen to that poordum beast. Get up if you’re a Christian.” So Mr. Dare got up and said,“Dear me, this is very remarkable. I thought I felt something moving.”
“I thought I would write this to you, dear Father, because it struck meas humerus.
“When Mr. Dare finished asking me questions I thought it was my turnand I would ask him some about some things I’ve wanted to know foryears. I asked him if he thought God was very perticular about everylittle thing I did and if he thought my cats would go to heaven. Hesaid he hoped I never did wrong things and that animals had no souls.And I asked him why we shouldn’t put new wine in old bottles. AuntElizabeth does with her dandelion wine and the old bottles do just aswell as new ones. He explained quite kindly that the Bible bottles weremade of skins and got rotten when they were old. It made it quite clearto me. Then I told him I was worried because I knew I ought to love Godbetter than anything but there were things I loved better than God. Hesaid “What things?” and I said flowers and stars and the Wind Womanand the Three Princesses and things like that. And he smiled and said“But they are just a part of God, Emily--every beautiful thing is.” Andall at once I liked him ever so much and didn’t feel shy with him anymore. He preeched a sermon on heaven last Sunday. It seemed like a dullplace. I think it must be more exiting than that. I wonder what I willdo when I go to heaven since I cant sing. I wonder if they will let mewrite poetry. But I think church is interesting. Aunt Elizabeth andAunt Laura always read their Bibles before the servis begins but I liketo stare around and see everybody and wonder what they are thinking of.It’s so nice to hear the silk dresses swishing up the isles. Bustlesare very fashunable now but Aunt Elizabeth will not wear them. I thinkAunt Elizabeth _would_ look funny with a bustle. Aunt Laura wears avery little one.
                       “Your lovingest daughter,                                  “_Emily B. Starr_.
“P. S. Dear Father, it is lovely to write to you. But O, I never get ananswer back.
                                        “_E. B. S._”



CHAPTER XVIII
FATHER CASSIDY

Consternation reigned at New Moon. Everybody was desperately unhappy.Aunt Laura cried. Aunt Elizabeth was so cantankerous that there was noliving with her. Cousin Jimmy went about as one distracted and Emilygave up worrying about Ilse’s mother and Silas Lee’s remorseful ghostafter she went to bed, and worried over this new trouble. For it hadall originated in her disregard of New Moon tradition in making callson Lofty John, and Aunt Elizabeth did not mince matters in telling herso. If she, Emily Byrd Starr, had never gone to Lofty John’s she wouldnever have eaten the Big Sweet apple, and if she had never eaten theBig Sweet apple Lofty John would not have played a joke on her and ifhe had not played a joke on her Aunt Elizabeth would never have goneand said bitter, Murray-like things to him; and if Aunt Elizabethhad never said bitter Murray-like things to him Lofty John would nothave become offended and revengeful; and if Lofty John had not becomeoffended and revengeful he would never have taken it into his loftyhead to cut down the beautiful grove to the north of New Moon.
For this was exactly where this house-that-Jack-built progression hadlanded them all. Lofty John had announced publicly in the Blair Waterblacksmith shop that he was going to cut down the bush as soon asharvest was over--every last tree and sapling was to be laid low. Thenews was promptly carried to New Moon and upset the inhabitants thereofas they had not been upset for years. In their eyes it was nothingshort of a catastrophe.
Elizabeth and Laura could hardly bring themselves to believe it. Thething was incredible. That big, thick, protecting bush of spruce andhardwood had _always_ been there; it belonged to New Moon _morally_;even Lofty John Sullivan would not _dare_ to cut it down. But LoftyJohn had an uncomfortable reputation for doing what he said he woulddo; that was a part of his loftiness; and if he did--if he did--
“New Moon will be ruined,” wailed poor Aunt Laura. “It will look_dreadful_--_all_ its beauty will go--and we will be left open tothe north wind and the sea storms--we have always been so warm andsheltered here. And Jimmy’s garden will be ruined too.”
“This is what comes of bringing Emily here,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
It was a cruel thing to say, even when all allowances were made,--crueland unjust, since her own sharp tongue and Murray sarcasm had had quiteas much to do with it as Emily. But she said it and it pierced Emily tothe heart with a pang that left a scar for years. Poor Emily did notfeel as if she needed any additional anguish. She was already feelingso wretched that she could not eat or sleep. Elizabeth Murray, angryand unhappy as she was, slept soundly at nights; but beside her in thedarkness, afraid to move or turn, lay a slender little creature whosetears, stealing silently down her cheeks, could not ease her breakingheart. For Emily thought her heart _was_ breaking; she couldn’t go onliving and suffering like this. Nobody could.
Emily had lived long enough at New Moon for it to get pretty thoroughlyinto her blood. Perhaps it had even been born there. At any rate,when she came to it she fitted into its atmosphere as a hand into aglove. She loved it as well as if she had lived there all her shortlife--loved every stick and stone and tree and blade of grass aboutit--every nail in the old kitchen floor, every cushion of green mosson the dairy roof, every pink and white columbine that grew in theold orchard, every “tradition” of its history. To think of its beautybeing in a large measure reft from it was agony to her. And to thinkof Cousin Jimmy’s garden being ruined! Emily loved that garden almostas much as he did; why, it was the pride of Cousin Jimmy’s life thathe could grow there plants and shrubs that would winter nowhere elsein P. E. Island; if the northern shelter were removed they would die.And to think of that beautiful bush itself being cut down--the TodayRoad and the Yesterday Road and the Tomorrow Road being swept out ofexistence--the stately Monarch of the Forest discrowned--the littleplayhouse where she and Ilse had such glorious hours destroyed--thewhole lovely, ferny, intimate place torn out of her life at one fellswoop.
Oh, Lofty John had chosen and timed his vengeance well!
When would the blow fall? Every morning Emily listened miserably asshe stood on the sandstone doorstep of the kitchen, for the sound ofaxe blows on the clear September air. Every evening when she returnedfrom school she dreaded to see that the work of destruction hadbegun. She pined and fretted. There were times when it seemed to hershe couldn’t bear her life any longer. Every day Aunt Elizabeth saidsomething imputing the whole blame to her and the child grew morbidlysensitive about it. Almost she wished Lofty John would begin and bedone with it. If Emily had ever heard the classic story of Damoclesshe would have heartily sympathized with him. If she had had any hopethat it would do any good she would have swallowed Murray pride andStarr pride and every other kind of pride and gone on her knees toLofty John to entreat him to hold his revengeful hand. But she believedit would not. Lofty John had left no doubt in anybody’s mind as tohis bitter determination in the matter. There was much talk about itin Blair Water and some were very well pleased at this blow to NewMoon pride and prestige, and some held that it was low and uncleanbehaviour on Lofty John’s part, and all agreed that this was whatthey had prophesied all along as bound to happen some day when theold Murray-Sullivan feud of three generations should have come to itsinevitable head. The only surprising thing was that Lofty John hadn’tdone it long ago. He had always hated Elizabeth Murray since theirschooldays, when her tongue had not spared him.
One day by the banks of Blair Water Emily sat down and wept. She hadbeen sent to trim the dead blossoms off the rosebushes on GrandmotherMurray’s grave; having finished her task she had not the heart to goback to the house where Aunt Elizabeth was making everybody miserablebecause she was herself so unhappy. Perry had reported that Lofty Johnhad stated the day before at the blacksmith’s that he was going tobegin cutting down the big bush on Monday morning.
“I _can’t_ bear it,” sobbed Emily to the rosebushes.
A few late roses nodded at her; the Wind Woman combed and waved andstirred the long green grasses on the graves where proud Murrays, menand women, slept calmly, unstirred by old feuds and passions; theSeptember sunlight shone beyond on old harvest fields mellowly brightand serene, and very softly against its green, shrub-hung bank, purredand lapped the blue Blair Water.
“I don’t see why God doesn’t _stop_ Lofty John,” said Emilypassionately. Surely the New Moon Murrays had a right to expect thatmuch from Providence.
Teddy came whistling down the pasture, the notes of his tune blowingacross the Blair Water like elfin drops of sound, vaulted the graveyardfence and perched his lean, graceful body irreverently on the “Here Istay” of Great-Grandmother Murray’s flat tombstone.
“What’s the matter?” he said.
“Everything’s the matter,” said Emily, a little crossly. Teddy had nobusiness to be looking so cheerful. She was used to more sympathy fromTeddy and it aggravated her not to find it. “Don’t you know Lofty Johnis going to begin cutting down the bush Monday?”
Teddy nodded.
“Yep. Ilse told me. But look here, Emily, I’ve thought of something.Lofty John wouldn’t dare cut down that bush if the priest told him notto, would he?”
“Why?”
“Because the Catholics have to do just what their priests tell them to,haven’t they?”
“I don’t know--I don’t know anything about them. _We_ arePresbyterians.”
Emily gave her head a little toss. Mrs. Kent was known to be an“English Church” woman and though Teddy went to the Presbyterian SundaySchool, that fact gave him scanty standing among bred-in-the-bonePresbyterian circles.
“If your Aunt Elizabeth went to Father Cassidy at White Cross and askedhim to stop Lofty John, maybe he’d do it,” persisted Teddy.
“Aunt Elizabeth would never do that,” said Emily positively. “I’m sureof it. She’s too proud.”
“Not even to save the bush?”
“Not even for that.”
“Then I guess nothing can be done,” said Teddy rather crest-fallen.“Look here--see what I’ve made. This is a picture of Lofty John inpurgatory, with three little devils sticking red-hot pitch forksinto him. I copied some of it out of one of mother’s books--Dante’sInfernal, I think it was--but I put Lofty John in place of the man inthe book. You can have it.”
“I don’t want it.” Emily uncoiled her legs and got up. She was past thestage when inflicting imaginary torments on Lofty John could comforther. She had already slain him in several agonizing ways during hernight vigils. But an idea had come to her--a daring, breathless idea.“I must go home now, Teddy--it’s supper time.”
Teddy pocketed his despised sketch--which was really a wonderful bitof work if either of them had had the sense to know it; the expressionof anguish in Lofty John’s face as a merry little devil touched himup with a pitchfork would have been the despair of many a trainedartist. He went home wishing he could help Emily; it was all wrongthat a creature like Emily--with soft purple-gray eyes and a smilethat made you think of all sorts of wonderful things you couldn’t putinto words--should be unhappy. Teddy felt so worried about it that headded a few more devils to his sketch of Lofty John in purgatory andlengthened the prongs of their pitchforks quite considerably.
Emily went home with a determined twist to her mouth. She ate as muchsupper as she could--which wasn’t much, for Aunt Elizabeth’s face wouldhave destroyed her appetite if she had had any--and then sneaked outof the house by the front door. Cousin Jimmy was working in his gardenbut he did not call her. Cousin Jimmy was always very sorrowful now.Emily stood a moment on the Grecian porch and looked at Lofty John’sbush--green-bosomed, waving, all lovely. Would it be a desecrated wasteof stumps by Monday night? Goaded by the thought Emily cast fear andhesitation to the winds and started briskly off down the lane. When shereached the gate she turned to the left on the long red road of mysterythat ran up the Delectable Mountain. She had never been on that roadbefore; it ran straight to White Cross; Emily was going to the parishhouse there to interview Father Cassidy. It was two miles to WhiteCross and Emily walked it all too soon--not because it was a beautifulroad of wind and wild fern, haunted by little rabbits--but because shedreaded what awaited her at the end. She had been trying to think whatshe should say--how she should say it; but her invention failed her.She had no acquaintance with Catholic priests, and couldn’t imaginehow you should talk to them at all. They were even more mysterious andunknowable than ministers. Suppose Father Cassidy should be dreadfullyangry at her daring to come there and ask a favour. Perhaps it _was_ adreadful thing to do from every point of view. And very likely it woulddo no good. Very likely Father Cassidy would refuse to interfere withLofty John, who was a good Catholic, while she was, in his opinion,a heretic. But for any chance, even the faintest, of averting thecalamity impending over New Moon, Emily would have faced the entireSacred College. Horribly frightened, miserably nervous as she was, theidea of turning back never occurred to her. She was only sorry thatshe hadn’t put on her Venetian beads. They might have impressed FatherCassidy.
Although Emily had never been to White Cross she knew the parish housewhen she saw it--a fine, tree-embowered residence near the big whitechapel with the flashing gilt cross on its spire and the four giltangels, one on each of the little spires at the corners. Emily thoughtthem very beautiful as they gleamed in the light of the lowering sun,and wished they could have some on the plain white church at BlairWater. She couldn’t understand why Catholics should have all theangels. But there was not time to puzzle over this, for the door wasopening and the trim little maid was looking a question.
“Is--Father Cassidy--at--home?” asked Emily, rather jerkily.
“Yes.”
“Can--I--see--him?”
“Come in,” said the little maid. Evidently there was no difficultyabout seeing Father Cassidy--no mysterious ceremonies such as Emilyhad half expected, even if she were allowed to see him at all. She wasshown into a book-lined room and left there, while the maid went tocall Father Cassidy, who, she said, was working in the garden. _That_sounded quite natural and encouraging. If Father Cassidy worked in agarden, he could not be so very terrible.
Emily looked about her curiously. She was in a very pretty room--withcosy chairs, and pictures and flowers. Nothing alarming or uncannyabout it--except a huge black cat who was sitting on the top of one ofthe bookcases. It was really an enormous creature. Emily adored catsand had always felt at home with any of them. But she had never seensuch a cat as this. What with its size and its insolent, gold-huedeyes, set like living jewels in its black velvet face, it did not seemto belong to the same species as nice, cuddly, respectable kittens atall. Mr. Dare would never have had such a beast about his manse. AllEmily’s dread of Father Cassidy returned.
And then in came Father Cassidy, with the friendliest smile in theworld. Emily took him in with her level glance as was her habit--orgift--and never again in the world was she the least bit afraid ofFather Cassidy. He was big and broad-shouldered, with brown eyes andbrown hair; and his very face was so deeply tanned from his inveteratehabit of going about bareheaded in merciless sunshine, that it wasbrown, too. Emily thought he looked just like a big nut--a big, brown,wholesome nut.
Father Cassidy looked at her as he shook hands; Emily had one of hervisitations of beauty just then. Excitement had brought a wildrosehue to her face, the sunlight brought out the watered-silk gloss ofher black hair; her eyes were softly dark and limpid; but it was ather ears Father Cassidy suddenly bent to look. Emily had a moment ofagonized wonder if they were clean.
“She’s got pointed ears,” said Father Cassidy, in a thrilling whisper.“Pointed ears! I _knew_ she came straight from fairyland the minuteI saw her. Sit down, Elf--if elves do sit--sit down and give me thelatest news av Titania’s court.”
Emily’s foot was now on her native heath. Father Cassidy talked herlanguage, and he talked it in such a mellow, throaty voice, slurringhis “ofs” ever so softly as became a proper Irishman. But she shookher head a little sadly. With the burden of her errand on her soul shecould not play the part of ambassadress from Elfland.
“I’m only Emily Starr of New Moon,” she said; and then gaspedhurriedly, because there must be no deception--no sailing under falsecolours, “and I’m a Protestant.”
“And a very nice little Protestant you are,” said Father Cassidy. “Butfor sure I’m a bit disappointed. I’m used to Protestants--the woodshereabouts being full av them--but it’s a hundred years since the lastelf called on me.”
Emily stared. Surely Father Cassidy wasn’t a hundred years old. Hedidn’t look more than fifty. Perhaps, though, Catholic priests did livelonger than other people. She didn’t know exactly what to say so shesaid, a bit lamely,
“I see you have a cat.”
“Wrong.” Father Cassidy shook his head and groaned dismally. “A cat hasme.”
Emily gave up trying to understand Father Cassidy. He was nice butununderstandable. She let it go at that. And she must get on with hererrand.
“You are a kind of minister, aren’t you?” she asked timidly. Shedidn’t know whether Father Cassidy would like being called a minister.
“Kind av,” he agreed amiably. “And you see ministers and priests can’tdo their own swearing. They have to keep cats to do it for them. Inever knew any cat that could sware as genteelly and effectively as theB’y.”
“Is that what you call him?” asked Emily, looking at the black cat insome awe. It seemed hardly safe to discuss him right before his face.
“That’s what he calls himself. My mother doesn’t like him because hesteals the cream. Now, _I_ don’t mind his doing that; no, it’s his wayav licking his jaws after it that I can’t stand. Oh, B’y, we’ve a fairycalling on us. Be excited for once, I implore you--there’s a duck av acat.”
The B’y refused to be excited. He winked an insolent eye at Emily.
“Have you any idea what goes on in the head av a cat, elf?”
What queer questions Father Cassidy asked. Yet Emily thought she wouldlike his questions if she were not so worried. Suddenly Father Cassidyleaned across the table and said,
“Now, just what’s bothering you?”
“I’m so unhappy,” said Emily piteously.
“So are lots av other people. Everybody is unhappy by spells. Butcreatures who have pointed ears shouldn’t be unhappy. It’s only mortalswho should be that.”
“Oh, please--please--” Emily wondered what she should call him. Wouldit offend him if a Protestant called him “Father”? But she had to riskit--“please, Father Cassidy, I’m in such trouble and I’ve come to ask a_great favour_ of you.”
Emily told him the whole tale from beginning to end--the oldMurray-Sullivan feud, her erstwhile friendship with Lofty John, theBig Sweet apple, the unhappy consequence, and Lofty John’s threatenedrevenge. The B’y and Father Cassidy listened with equal gravity untilshe had finished. Then the B’y winked at her, but Father Cassidy puthis long brown fingers together.
“Humph,” he said.
(“That’s the first time,” reflected Emily, “that I’ve ever heard anyoneoutside of a book say ‘Humph.’”)
“Humph,” said Father Cassidy again. “And you want me to put a stop tothis nefarious deed?”
“If you can,” said Emily. “Oh, it would be so splendid if you could.Will you--will you?”
Father Cassidy fitted his fingers still more carefully together.
“I’m afraid I can hardly invoke the power av the keys to prevent LoftyJohn from disposing as he wishes av his own lawful property, you know,elf.”
Emily didn’t understand the allusion to the keys but she did understandthat Father Cassidy was declining to bring the lever of the Church tobear on Lofty John. There was no hope, then. She could not keep thetears of disappointment out of her eyes.
“Oh, come now, darling, don’t cry,” implored Father Cassidy. “Elvesnever cry--they can’t. It would break my heart to discover you weren’tav the Green Folk. You may call yourself av New Moon and av anyreligion you like, but the fact remains that you belong to the GoldenAge and the old gods. That’s why I must save your precious bit avgreenwood for you.”
Emily stared.
“I think it can be done,” Father Cassidy went on. “I think if I goto Lofty John and have a heart-to-heart talk with him I can make himsee reason. Lofty John and I are very good friends. He’s a reasonablecreature, if you know how to take him--which means to flatter hisvanity judiciously. I’ll put it to him, not as priest to parishoner,but as man to man, that no decent Irishman carries on a feud withwomen and that no sensible person is going to destroy for nothing buta grudge those fine old trees that have taken half a century to growand can never be replaced. Why, the man who cuts down such a tree exceptwhen it is really necessary should be hanged as high as Haman on agallows made from the wood av it.”
(Emily thought she would write that last sentence of Father Cassidy’sdown in Cousin Jimmy’s blank book when she got home.)
“But I won’t say _that_ to Lofty John,” concluded Father Cassidy. “Yes,Emily av New Moon, I think we can consider it a settled thing that yourbush will not be cut down.”
Suddenly Emily felt very happy. Somehow she had entire confidence inFather Cassidy. She was sure he would twist Lofty John around hislittle finger.
“Oh, I can never thank you enough!” she said earnestly.
“That’s true, so don’t waste breath trying. And now tell me things. Arethere any more av you? And how long have you been yourself?”
“I’m twelve years old--I haven’t any brothers or sisters. And I _think_I’d better be going home.”
“Not till you’ve had a bite av lunch.”
“Oh, thank you, I’ve had my supper.”
“Two hours ago and a two-mile walk since. Don’t tell me. I’m sorry Ihaven’t any nectar and ambrosia on hand--such food as elves eat--andnot even a saucer av moonshine--but my mother makes the best plumcake av any woman in P. E. Island. And we keep a cream cow. Wait herea bit. Don’t be afraid av the B’y. He eats tender little Protestantssometimes, but he never meddles with leprechauns.”
When Father Cassidy came back his mother came with him, carrying atray. Emily had expected to see her big and brown too, but she was thetiniest woman imaginable, with snow-white, silky hair, mild blue eyes,and pink cheeks.
“Isn’t she the sweetest thing in the way av mothers?” asked FatherCassidy. “I keep her to look at. Av course--” Father Cassidy droppedhis voice to a pig’s whisper--“there’s something odd about her. I’veknown that woman to stop right in the middle av housecleaning, and gooff and spend an afternoon in the woods. Like yourself, I’m thinkingshe has some truck with fairies.”
Mrs. Cassidy smiled, kissed Emily, said she must go out and finish herpreserving, and trotted off.
“Now you sit right down here, Elf, and be human for ten minutes andwe’ll have a friendly snack.”
Emily _was_ hungry--a nice comfortable feeling she hadn’t experiencedfor a fortnight. Mrs. Cassidy’s plum cake was all her reverend sonclaimed, and the cream cow seemed to be no myth.
“What do you think av me now?” asked Father Cassidy suddenly, findingEmily’s eyes fixed on him speculatively.
Emily blushed. She had been wondering if she dared ask another favourof Father Cassidy.
“I think you are awfully good,” she said.
“I _am_ awfully good,” agreed Father Cassidy. “I’m so good that I’ll dowhat you want me to do--for I feel there’s something else you want meto do.”
“I’m in a scrape and I’ve been in it all summer. You see”--Emily wasvery sober--“I am a poetess.”
“Holy Mike! That _is_ serious. I don’t know if I can do much for you.How long have you been that way?”
“Are you making fun of me?” asked Emily gravely.
Father Cassidy swallowed something besides plum cake.
“The saints forbid! It’s only that I’m rather overcome. To be afterentertaining a lady av New Moon--and an elf--and a poetess all in oneis a bit too much for a humble praste like meself. Have another sliceav cake and tell me all about it.”
“It’s like this--I’m writing an epic.”
Father Cassidy suddenly leaned over and gave Emily’s wrist a littlepinch.
“I just wanted to see if you were real,” he explained. “Yes--yes,you’re writing an epic--go on. I think I’ve got my second wind now.”
“I began it last spring. I called it _The White Lady_ first but nowI’ve changed it to _The Child of the Sea_. Don’t you think that’s abetter title?”
“Much better.”
“I’ve got three cantos done, and I can’t get any further becausethere’s something I don’t know and can’t find out. I’ve been so worriedabout it.”
“What is it?”
“My epic,” said Emily, diligently devouring plum cake, “is about a verybeautiful high-born girl who was stolen away from her real parents whenshe was a baby and brought up in a woodcutter’s hut.”
“One av of the seven original plots in the world,” murmured FatherCassidy.
“What?”
“Nothing. Just a bad habit av thinking aloud. Go on.”
“She had a lover of high degree but his family did not want him tomarry her because she was only a woodcutter’s daughter--”
“Another of the seven plots--excuse me.”
“--so they sent him away to the Holy land on a crusade and word cameback that he was killed and then Editha--her name was Editha--went intoa convent--”
Emily paused for a bite of plum cake and Father Cassidy took up thestrain.
“And now her lover comes back very much alive, though covered withPaynim scars, and the secret av her birth is discovered through thedying confession av the old nurse and the birthmark on her arm.”
“How did you know?” gasped Emily in amazement.
“Oh, I guessed it--I’m a good guesser. But where’s your bother in allthis?”
“I don’t know how to get her out of the convent,” confessed Emily. “Ithought perhaps you would know how it could be done.”
Again Father Cassidy fitted his fingers.
“Let us see, now. It’s no light matter you’ve undertaken, young lady.How stands the case? _Editha_ has taken the veil, not because she hasa religious vocation but because she imagines her heart is broken. TheCatholic Church does not release its nuns from their vows because theyhappen to think they’ve made a little mistake av that sort. No, no,--wemust have a better reason. Is this Editha the sole child av her realparents?”
“Yes.”
“Oh, then the way is clear. If she had had any brothers or sisters youwould have had to kill them off, which is a messy thing to do. Well,then, she is the sole daughter and heiress av a noble family who havefor years been at deadly feud with another noble family--the family avthe lover. Do you know what a feud is?”
“Of course,” said Emily disdainfully. “And I’ve got all that in thepoem already.”
“So much the better. This feud has rent the kingdom in twain and canonly be healed by an alliance between Capulet and Montague.”
“Those aren’t their names.”
“No matter. This, then, is a national affair, with far-reaching issues,therefore an appeal to the Supreme Pontiff is quite in order. What youwant,” Father Cassidy nodded solemnly, “is a dispensation from Rome.”
“Dispensation is a hard word to work into a poem,” said Emily.
“Undoubtedly. But young ladies who _will_ write epic poems and who_will_ lay the scenes thereof amid times and manners av hundreds avyears ago, and _will_ choose heroines av a religion quite unknown tothem, _must_ expect to run up against a few snags.”
“Oh, I think I’ll be able to work it in,” said Emily cheerfully. “AndI’m so much obliged to you. You don’t know what a relief it is to mymind. I’ll finish the poem right up now in a few weeks. I haven’t donea thing at it all summer. But then of course I’ve been busy. IlseBurnley and I have been making a new language.”
“Making a--new--excuse me. _Did_ you say _language_?”
“Yes.”
“What’s the matter with English? Isn’t it good enough for you, youincomprehensible little being?”
“Oh, yes. _That_ isn’t why we’re making a new one. You see in thespring, Cousin Jimmy got a lot of French boys to help plant thepotatoes. I had to help too, and Ilse came to keep me company. And itwas so annoying to hear those boys talking French when we couldn’tunderstand a word of it. They did it just to make us mad. Suchjabbering! So Ilse and I just made up our minds we’d invent a newlanguage that _they_ couldn’t understand. We’re getting on fine andwhen the potato picking time comes we’ll be able to talk to each otherand those boys won’t be able to understand a word we’re saying. Oh, itwill be great fun!”
“I haven’t a doubt. But two girls who will go to all the trouble avinventing a new language just to get square with some poor littleFrench boys--you’re beyond me,” said Father Cassidy, helplessly.“Goodness knows what you’ll be doing when you grow up. You’ll be RedRevolutionists. I tremble for Canada.”
“Oh, it isn’t a trouble--it’s fun. And all the girls in school are justwild because they hear us talking in it and can’t make it out. We cantalk secrets right before them.”
“Human nature being what it is, I can see where the fun comes in allright. Let’s hear a sample av your language.”
“Nat millan O ste dolman bote ta Shrewsbury fernas ta poo litanos,”said Emily glibly. “That means, ‘Next summer I am going to Shrewsburywoods to pick strawberries.’ I yelled that across the playground toIlse the other day at recess and oh, how everybody stared.”
“Staring, is it? I should say so. My own poor old eyes are all butdropping out av me head. Let’s hear a bit more av it.”
“Mo tral li dead seb ad li mo trene. Mo bertral seb mo bertrene dassten dead e ting setra. _That_ means ‘My father is dead and so is mymother. My grandfather and grandmother have been dead a long time.’ Wehaven’t invented a word for ‘dead’ yet. I think I will soon be able towrite my poems in our language and then Aunt Elizabeth will not be ableto read them if she finds them.”
“Have you written any other poetry besides your epic?”
“Oh, yes--but just short pieces--dozens of them.”
“H’m. Would you be so kind as to let me hear one av them?”
Emily was greatly flattered. And she did not mind letting FatherCassidy hear her precious stuff.
“I’ll recite my last poem,” she said, clearing her throat importantly.“It’s called _Evening Dreams_.”
Father Cassidy listened attentively. After the first verse a changecame over his big brown face, and he began patting his fingertipstogether. When Emily finished she hung down her lashes and waitedtremblingly. What if Father Cassidy said it was no good? No, hewouldn’t be so impolite--but if he bantered her as he had done abouther epic--she would know what _that_ meant.
Father Cassidy did not speak all at once. The prolonged suspense wasterrible to Emily. She was afraid he could not praise and did not wantto hurt her feelings by dispraise. All at once her “Evening Dreams”seemed trash and she wondered how she could ever have been silly enoughto repeat it to Father Cassidy.
Of course, it _was_ trash. Father Cassidy knew that well enough.All the same, for a child like this--and rhyme and rhythm wereflawless--and there was one line--just one line--“the light of faintlygolden stars”--for the sake of that line Father Cassidy suddenly said,
“Keep on,--keep on writing poetry.”
“You mean?”--Emily was breathless.
“I mean you’ll be able to do something by and by. Something--I don’tknow how much--but keep on--keep on.”
Emily was so happy she wanted to cry. It was the first word ofcommendation she had ever received except from her father--and a fathermight have too high an opinion of one. _This_ was different. To the endof her struggle for recognition Emily never forgot Father Cassidy’s“Keep on” and the tone in which he said it.
“Aunt Elizabeth scolds me for writing poetry,” she said wistfully. “Shesays people will think I’m as simple as Cousin Jimmy.”
“The path of genius never did run smooth. But have another piece avcake--do, just to show there’s something human about you.”
“Ve, merry ti. O del re dolman cosey aman ri sen ritter. _That_ means,‘No, thank you. I must be going home before it gets dark.’”
“I’ll drive you home.”
“Oh, no, no. It’s very kind of you”--the English language was quitegood enough for Emily now. “But I’d rather _walk_. It’s--it’s--suchgood exercise.”
“Meaning,” said Father Cassidy with a twinkle in his eye, “that wemust keep it from the old lady. Good-bye, and may you always see ahappy face in your looking-glass!”
Emily was too happy to be tired on the way home. There seemed to be abubble of joy in her heart--a shimmering, prismatic bubble. When shecame to the top of the big hill and looked across to New Moon, her eyeswere satisfied and loving. How beautiful it was, lying embowered in thetwilight of the old trees; the tips of the loftiest spruces came out inpurple silhouette against the northwestern sky of rose and amber; downbehind it the Blair Water dreamed in silver; the Wind Woman had foldedher misty bat-wings in a valley of sunset and stillness lay over theworld like a blessing. Emily felt sure everything would be all right.Father Cassidy would manage it in some way.
And he had told her to “keep on.”



CHAPTER XIX
FRIENDS AGAIN

Emily listened very anxiously on Monday morning, but “no sound of axe,no ponderous hammer rang” in Lofty John’s bush. That evening on her wayhome from school, Lofty John himself overtook her in his buggy and forthe first time since the night of the apple stopped and accosted her.
“Will ye take a lift, Miss Emily av New Moon?” he said affably.
Emily climbed in, feeling a little bit foolish. But Lofty John lookedquite friendly as he clucked to his horse.
“So you’ve clean wiled the heart out av Father Cassidy’s body,” hesaid. “‘The sweetest scrap av a girl I’ve iver seen,’ says he to me.Sure an’ ye might lave the poor prastes alone.”
Emily looked at Lofty John out of the corner of her eye. He did notseem angry.
“Ye’ve put _me_ in a nice tight fix av it,” he went on. “I’m as proudas any New Moon Murray av ye all and your Aunt Elizabeth said a numberav things that got under my skin. I’ve many an old score to settle withher. So I thought I’d get square by cutting av the bush down. And youhad to go and quare me wid me praste bekase av it and now I make nodoubt I’ll not be after daring to cut a stick av kindling to warm meshivering carcase without asking lave av the Pope.”
“Oh, Mr. Sullivan, are you going to leave the bush alone?” said Emilybreathlessly.
“It all rests with yourself, Miss Emily av New Moon. Ye can’t be afterexpecting a Lofty John to be too humble. I didn’t come by the namebekase av me makeness.”
“What do you want me to do?”
“First, then, I’m wanting you to let bygones be bygones in that matterav the apple. And be token av the same come over and talk to me nowand then as ye did last summer. Sure now, and I’ve missed ye--ye andthat spit-fire av an Ilse who’s never come aither bekase she thinks Imistrated you.”
“I’ll come of course,” said Emily doubtfully, “if only Aunt Elizabethwill let me.”
“Tell her if she don’t the bush’ll be cut down--ivery last stick av it.That’ll fetch her. And there’s wan more thing. Ye must ask me rale makeand polite to do ye the favour av not cutting down the bush. If ye doit pretty enough sure niver a tree will I touch. But if ye don’t downthey go, praste or no praste,” concluded Lofty John.
Emily summoned all her wiles to her aid. She clasped her hands, shelooked up through her lashes at Lofty John, she smiled as slowlyand seductively as she knew how--and Emily had considerable nativeknowledge of that sort. “Please, Mr. Lofty John,” she coaxed, “won’tyou leave me the dear bush I love?”
Lofty John swept off his crumpled old felt hat. “To be sure an’ I will.A proper Irishman always does what a lady asks him. Sure an’ it’s beenthe ruin av us. We’re at the mercy av the petticoats. If ye’d comeand said that to me afore ye’d have had no need av your walk to WhiteCross. But mind ye keep the rest av the bargin. The reds are ripe andthe scabs soon will be--and all the rats have gone to glory.”
Emily flew into the New Moon kitchen like a slim whirlwind.
“Aunt Elizabeth, Lofty John isn’t going to cut down the bush--he toldme he wouldn’t--but I have to go and see him sometimes--if you don’tobject.”
“I suppose it wouldn’t make much difference to you if I did,” saidAunt Elizabeth. But her voice was not so sharp as usual. She would notconfess how much Emily’s announcement relieved her; but it mellowed herattitude considerably. “There’s a letter here for you. I want to knowwhat it means.”
Emily took the letter. It was the first time she had ever received areal letter through the mail and she tingled with the delight of it.It was addressed in a heavy black hand to “Miss Emily Starr, New Moon,Blair Water.” But--
“You opened it!” she cried indignantly.
“Of course I did. You are not going to receive letters I am not to see,Miss. What I want to know is--how comes Father Cassidy to be writing toyou--and writing such nonsense?”
“I went to see him Saturday,” confessed Emily, realizing that the catwas out of the bag. “And I asked him if he couldn’t prevent Lofty Johnfrom cutting down the bush.”
“Emily--Byrd--Starr!”
“I _told_ him I was a Protestant,” cried Emily. “He understands allabout it. And he was just like anybody else. I like him _better_ thanMr. Dare.”
Aunt Elizabeth did not say much more. There did not seem to be much she_could_ say. Besides the bush wasn’t going to be cut down. The bringerof good news is forgiven much. She contented herself with glaring atEmily--who was too happy and excited to mind glares. She carried herletter off to the garret dormer and gloated over the stamp and thesuperscription a bit before she took out the enclosure.
“Dear Pearl of Emilys,” wrote Father Cassidy. “I’ve seen our loftyfriend and I feel sure your green outpost of fairyland will be savedfor your moonlit revels. I know you _do_ dance there by light o’ moonwhen mortals are snoring. I think you’ll have to go through the formof asking Mr. Sullivan to spare those trees, but you’ll find him quitereasonable. It’s all in the knowing how and the time of the moon.How goes the epic and the language? I hope you’ll have no trouble infreeing the _Child of The Sea_ from her vows. Continue to be the friendof all good elves, and of
                          “Your admiring friend,                                   “_James Cassidy_.
“P. S. The B’y sends respects. What word have you for ‘cat’ in yourlanguage? Sure and you can’t get anything cattier than ‘cat’ can you,now?”
       *       *       *       *       *
Lofty John spread the story of Emily’s appeal to Father Cassidy farand wide, enjoying it as a good joke on himself. Rhoda Stuart said shealways knew Emily Starr was a bold thing and Miss Brownell said shewould be surprised at _nothing_ Emily Starr would do, and Dr. Burnleycalled her a Little Devil more admiringly than ever, and Perry said shehad pluck and Teddy took credit for suggesting it, and Aunt Elizabethendured, and Aunt Laura thought it might have been worse. But CousinJimmy made Emily feel very happy.
“It would have spoiled the garden and broken my heart, Emily,” he toldher. “You’re a little darling girl to have prevented it.”
One day a month later, when Aunt Elizabeth had taken Emily toShrewsbury to fit her out with a winter coat, they met Father Cassidyin a store. Aunt Elizabeth bowed with great stateliness, but Emily putout a slender paw.
“What about the dispensation from Rome?” whispered Father Cassidy.
One Emily was quite horrified lest Aunt Elizabeth should overhearand think she was having sly dealings with the Pope, such as nogood Presbyterian half-Murray of New Moon should have. The otherEmily thrilled to her toes with the dramatic delight of a secretunderstanding of mystery and intrigue. She nodded gravely, her eyeseloquent with satisfaction.
“I got it without any trouble,” she whispered back.
“Fine,” said Father Cassidy. “I wish you good luck, and I wish it hard.Good-bye.”
“Farewell,” said Emily, thinking it a word more in keeping with darksecrets than good-bye. She tasted the flavour of that half-stoleninterview all the way home, and felt quite as if she were living in anepic herself. She did not see Father Cassidy again for years--he wassoon afterwards removed to another parish; but she always thought ofhim as a very agreeable and understanding person.



CHAPTER XX
BY AERIAL POST

“DEAREST FATHER:
“My heart is very sore to night. Mike died this morning. Cousin Jimmysays he must have been poisoned. Oh, Father dear, I felt so bad. Hewas such a lovely cat. I cried and cried and cried. Aunt Elizabeth wasdisgusted. She said, “You did not make half so much fuss when yourfather died.” What a crewel speech. Aunt Laura was nicer but when shesaid, “Don’t cry dear. I will get you another kitten,” I saw she didn’tunderstand either. I don’t want another kitten. If I had _millions_ ofkittens they wouldn’t make up for Mike.
“Ilse and I buried him in Lofty John’s bush. I am so thankful theground wasn’t frozen yet. Aunt Laura gave me a shoe box for a coffin,and some pink tissue paper to wrap his poor little body in. And we puta stone over the grave and I said “Blessed are the dead who die in theLord.” When I told Aunt Laura about it she was horrified and said, “Oh,Emily, that was a dreadful thing. You should not have said that over acat.” And Cousin Jimmy said, “Don’t you think, Laura, that an innocentlittle dum creature has a share in God? Emily loved him and all love ispart of God.” And Aunt Laura said, “Maybe you are right, Jimmy. But Iam thankful Elizabeth did not hear her.”
“Cousin Jimmy may not be all there, but what is there is very nice.
“But oh, Father, I am so lonesome for Mike tonight. Last night he washere playing with me, so cunning and pretty and _smee_, and now he iscold and dead in Lofty John’s bush.
                                       “DECEMBER 18.
“DEAR FATHER:
“I am here in the garret. The Wind Woman is very sorry about somethingtonight. She is sying so sadly around the window. And yet the firsttime I heard her tonight the flash came--I felt as if I had just seensomething that happened long, long ago--something so lovely that ithurt me.
“Cousin Jimmy says there will be a snow storm tonight. I am glad. Ilike to hear a storm at night. It’s so cozy to snuggle down amongthe blankets and feel it can’t get at you. Only when I snuggle AuntElizabeth says I skwirm. The idea of any one not knowing the differencebetween snuggling and skwirming.
“I am glad we will have snow for Christmas. The Murray dinner is tobe at New Moon this year. It is our turn. Last year it was at UncleOliver’s but Cousin Jimmy had grippe and couldn’t go so I stayed homewith him. I will be right in the thick of it this year and it exitesme. I will write you all about it after it is over, dearest.
“I want to tell you something, Father. I am ashamed of it, but I thinkI’ll feel better if I tell you all about it. Last Saturday Ella Lee hada birthday party and I was invited. Aunt Elizabeth let me put on my newblue cashmere dress. It is a very pretty dress. Aunt Elizabeth wantedto get a dark brown but Aunt Laura insisted on blue. I looked at myselfin my glass and I remembered that Ilse had told me her father told herI would be handsome if I had more colour. So I pinched my cheeks tomake them red. I looked ever so much nicer but it didn’t last. ThenI took an old red velvet flower that had once been in Aunt Laura’sbonnet and wet it and then rubbed the red on my cheeks. I went to theparty and the girls all _looked_ at me but nobody said anything, onlyRhoda Stuart giggled and giggled. I meant to come home and wash thered off before Aunt Elizabeth saw me. But she took a notion to callfor me on her way home from the store. She did not say anything therebut when we got home she said, “What have you been doing to your face,Emily?” I told her and I expected an awful scolding, but all she saidwas, “Don’t you know that you have made yourself _cheap_?” I did knowit, too. I had felt that all along although I couldn’t think of theright word for it before. “I will never do such a thing again, AuntElizabeth,” I said. “You’d better not,” she said. “Go and wash yourface this instant.” I did and I was not half so pretty but I felt everso much better. Strange to relate, dear Father, I heard Aunt Elizabethlaughing about it in the pantry to Aunt Laura afterwards. You never cantell what will make Aunt Elizabeth laugh. I am sure it was ever so muchfunnier when Saucy Sal followed me to prayer meeting last Wednesdaynight, but Aunt Elizabeth never laughed a bit then. I don’t often go toprayer meeting but Aunt Laura couldn’t go that night so Aunt Elizabethtook me because she doesn’t like to go alone. I didn’t know Sal wasfollowing us till just as we got to the church I saw her. I shooed heraway but after we went in I suppose Sal sneaked in when someone openedthe door and got upstairs into the galery. And just as soon as Mr.Dare began to pray Sal began to yowl. It sounded awful up in that bigempty galery. I felt so gilty and miserable. I did not need to paintmy face. It was just burning red and Aunt Elizabeth’s eyes glitteredfeendishly. Mr. Dare prayed a long time. He is deaf, so he did not hearSal any more than when he sat on her. But everyone else did and theboys giggled. After the prayer Mr. Morris went up to the galery andchased Sal out. We could hear her skrambling over the seats and Mr.Morris after her. I was wild for fear he’d hurt her. I ment to spankher myself with a shingle next day but I did not want her to be kicked.After a long time he got her out of the galery and she tore down thestairs and into the church, up one isle and down the other two orthree times as fast as she could go and Mr. Morris after her with abroom. It is awfully funny to think of it now but I did not think it sofunny at the time I was so ashamed and so afraid Sal would be hurt.
“Mr. Morris chased her out at last. When he sat down I made a faceat him behind my hymn book. Coming home Aunt Elizabeth said, “I hopeyou have disgraced us enough tonight, Emily Starr. I shall never takeyou to prayer meeting again.” I am sorry I disgraced the Murrays butI don’t see how I was to blame and anyway I don’t like prayer meetingbecause it is dull.
“But it wasn’t dull that night, dear Father.
“Do you notice how my spelling is improved? I have thought of such agood plan. I write my letter first and then I look up all the words I’mnot sure of and correct them. Sometimes though I think a word is allright when it isn’t.
“Ilse and I have given up our language. We fought over the verbs. Ilsedidn’t want to have any tenses for the verbs. She just wanted to havea different word altogether for every tense. I said if I was going tomake a language it was going to be a proper one and Ilse got mad andsaid she had enough bother with grammer in English and I could go andmake my old language by myself. But that is no fun so I let it go too.I was sorry because it was very interesting and it was such fun topuzzle the other girls in school. We weren’t able to get square withthe French boys after all for Ilse had sore throat all through potatopicking time and couldn’t come over. It seems to me that life is fullof disappointments.
“We had examinations in school this week. I did pretty well in allexcept arithmetic. Miss Brownell explained something about thequestions but I was busy composing a story in my mind and did nothear her so I got poor marks. The story is called _Madge MacPherson’sSecret_. I am going to buy four sheets of foolscap with my egg moneyand sew them into a book and write the story in it. I can do what Ilike with my egg money. I think maybe I’ll write novels when I grow upas well as poetry. But Aunt Elizabeth won’t let me read any novels sohow can I find out how to write them? Another thing that worries me, ifI do grow up and write a wonderful poem, perhaps people won’t see howwonderful it is.
“Cousin Jimmy says that a man in Priest Pond says the end of the worldis coming soon. I hope it won’t come till I’ve seen everything in it.
“Poor Elder MacKay has the mumps.
“I was over sleeping with Ilse the other night because her father wasaway. Ilse says her prayers now and she said she’d bet me anything shecould pray longer than me. I said she couldn’t and I prayed ever solong about everything I could think of and when I couldn’t think ofanything more I thought at first I’d begin over again. Then I thought,“No, that would not be honerable. A Starr must be honerable.” So I gotup and said “You win” and Ilse never answered. I went around the bedand there she was asleep on her knees. When I woke her up she said we’dhave to call the bet off because she could have gone on praying forever so long if she hadn’t fell asleep.
“After we got into bed I told her a lot of things I wished afterwards Ihadn’t. Secrets.
“The other day in history class Miss Brownell read that Sir WalterRaleigh had to lie in the Tower for fourteen years. Perry said“Wouldn’t they let him get up sometimes?” Then Miss Brownell punishedhim for impertinence, but Perry was in earnest. Ilse was mad at MissBrownell for whipping Perry and mad at Perry for asking such a foolquestion as if he didn’t know anything. But Perry says he is going towrite a history book some day that won’t have such puzzling things init.
“I am finishing the Disappointed House in my mind. I’m furnishingthe rooms like flowers. I’ll have a rose room all pink and a lilyroom all white and silver and a pansy room, blue and gold. I wishthe Disappointed House could have a Christmas. It never has anyChristmasses.
“Oh, Father, I’ve just thought of something nice. When I grow up andwrite a great novel and make lots of money, I will buy the DisappointedHouse and finish it. Then it won’t be Disappointed any more.
“Ilse’s Sunday School teacher, Miss Willeson, gave her a Bible forlearning 200 verses. But when she took it home her father laid it onthe floor and kicked it out in the yard. Mrs. Simms says a judgmentwill come on him but nothing has happened yet. The poor man is warped.That is why he did such a wicked thing.
“Aunt Laura took me to old Mrs. Mason’s funeral last Wednesday. I likefunerals. They are so dramatic.
“My pig died last week. It was a _great finanshul loss_ to me. AuntElizabeth says Cousin Jimmy fed it too well. I suppose I should nothave called it after Lofty John.
“We have maps to draw in school now. Rhoda Stuart always gets the mostmarks. Miss Brownell doesn’t know that Rhoda just puts the map upagainst a window pane and the paper over it and copies it off. I likedrawing maps. Norway and Sweden look like a tiger with mountains forstripes and Ireland looks like a little dog with its back turned onEngland, and its paws held up against its breast, and Africa looks likea big pork ham. Australia is a lovely map to draw.
“Ilse is getting on real well in school now. She says she isn’t goingto have me beating her. She can learn like the dickins, as Perry says,when she tries, and she has won the silver metal for Queen’s County.The W.C.T.U. in Charlottetown gave it for the best reciter. They hadthe contest in Shrewsbury and Aunt Laura took Ilse because Dr. Burnleywouldn’t and Ilse won it. Aunt Laura told Dr. Burnley when he was hereone day that he ought to give Ilse a good education. He said “I’m notgoing to waste money educating any she-thing.” And he looked black asa thunder cloud. Oh, I wish Dr. Burnley would love Ilse. I’m so glad_you_ loved _me_, Father.
                                           “DEC. 22.
“Dear Father: We had our school examination today. It was a greatoccasion. Almost everybody was there except Dr. Burnley and AuntElizabeth. All the girls wore their best dresses but me. I knew Ilsehad nothing to wear but her shabby old last winter’s plaid that istoo short for her, so to keep her from feeling bad, I put on my oldbrown dress, too. Aunt Elizabeth did not want to let me do it at firstbecause New Moon Murrays should be well dressed but when I explainedabout Ilse she looked at Aunt Laura and then said I might.
“Rhoda Stuart made fun of Ilse and me but I heaped coals of fire onher head. (That is what is called a figure of speech.) She got stuckin her recitation. She had left the book home and nobody else knew thepiece but me. At first I looked at her triumphantly. But then a queerfeeling came into me and I thought “What would I feel like if I wasstuck before a big crowd of people like this? And besides the honour ofthe school is at stake,” so I whispered it to her because I was quiteclose. She got through the rest all right. The strange thing is, dearFather, that now I don’t feel any more as if I hated her. I feel quitekindly to her and it is much nicer. It is uncomfortable to hate people.
                                           “DEC. 28.
“DEAR FATHER:
“Christmas is over. It was pretty nice. I never saw so many good thingscooked all at once. Uncle Wallace and Aunt Eva and Uncle Oliver andAunt Addie and Aunt Ruth were here. Uncle Oliver didn’t bring any ofhis children and I was much disappointed. We had Dr. Burnley and Ilsetoo. Everyone was dressed up. Aunt Elizabeth wore her black satin dresswith a pointed lace collar and cap. She looked quite handsome and I wasproud of her. You like your relations to look well even if you don’tlike _them_. Aunt Laura wore her brown silk and Aunt Ruth had on agrey dress. Aunt Eva was _very_ elegant. Her dress had a train. But itsmelled of moth balls.
“I had on my blue cashmere and wore my hair tied with blue ribbons, andAunt Laura let me wear mother’s blue silk sash with the pink daisieson it that she had when she was a little girl at New Moon. Aunt Ruthsniffed when she saw me. She said, “You have grown a good deal, Em’ly.I hope you are a better girl.”
“But she _didn’t_ hope it (really). I saw that quite plain. Then shetold me my bootlace was untyed.
“She looks better,” said Uncle Oliver. “I wouldn’t wonder if she grewup into a strong, healthy girl after all.”
“Aunt Eva sighed and shook her head. Uncle Wallace didn’t say anythingbut shook hands with me. His hand was as cold as a fish. When we wentout to the sitting room for dinner I stepped on Aunt Eva’s train andI could hear some stitches rip somewhere. Aunt Eva pushed me away andAunt Ruth said, “What a very awkward child you are, Emily.” I steppedbehind Aunt Ruth and stuck out my tongue at her. Uncle Oliver makes anoise eating his soup. We had all the good silver spoons out. CousinJimmy carved the turkeys and he gave me two slices of the breastbecause he knows I like the white meat best. Aunt Ruth said “When I wasa little girl the wing was good enough for me,” and Cousin Jimmy put_another_ white slice on my plate. Aunt Ruth didn’t say anything morethen till the carving was done, and then she said, “I saw your schoolteacher in Shrewsbury last Saturday, Em’ly, and she did not give me avery good account of you. If you were _my_ daughter I would expect adifferent report.”
“I am very glad I am not your daughter,” I said in my mind. I didn’tsay it out loud of course but Aunt Ruth said, “Please do not look sosulky when I speak to you, Em’ly.” And Uncle Wallace said, “It is apity she has such an unattractive expression.”
“_You_ are conceited and domineering and stingy,” I said, still in mymind. “I heard Dr. Burnley say you were.”
“I see there is an ink-stain on her finger,” said Aunt Ruth. (I hadbeen writing a poem before dinner.)
“And then a most surprising thing happened. Relations are alwayssurprising you. Aunt Elizabeth spoke up and said, “_I do wish, Ruth,that you and Wallace would leave that child alone._” I could hardlybelieve my ears. Aunt Ruth looked annoyed but she _did_ leave me aloneafter that and only sniffed when Cousin Jimmy slipped a bit more whitemeat on my plate.
“After that the dinner was nice. And when they got as far as thepudding they all began to talk and it was splendid to listen to. Theytold stories and jokes about the Murrays. Even Uncle Wallace laughedand Aunt Ruth told some things about Great-Aunt Nancy. They weresarcastic but they were interesting. Aunt Elizabeth opened GrandfatherMurray’s desk and took out an old poem that had been written to AuntNancy _by a lover_ when she was young and Uncle Oliver read it.Great-Aunt Nancy must have been very beautiful. I wonder if anyone willever write a poem to me. If I could have a bang somebody might. I said,“Was Great Aunt Nancy really as pretty as that?” and Uncle Oliver said,“They say she was 70 years ago” and Uncle Wallace said, “She hangs onwell--she’ll see the century mark yet,” and Uncle Oliver said, “Oh,she’s got so in the habit of living she’ll never die.”
“Dr. Burnley told a story I didn’t understand. Uncle Wallace hawhawedright out and Uncle Oliver put his napkin up to his face. Aunt Addieand Aunt Eva looked at each other sidewise and then at their platesand smiled a little bit. Aunt Ruth seemed offended and Aunt Elizabethlooked _coldly_ at Dr. Burnley and said, “I think you forget thatthere are children present.” Dr. Burnley said, “I beg your pardon,Elizabeth,” _very_ politely. He can speak with a _grand air_ when helikes. He is very handsome when he is dressed up and shaved. Ilse saysshe is proud of him even if he hates her.
“After dinner was over the presents were given. That is a Murraytradishun. We never have stockings or trees but a big bran pie ispassed all around with the presents buried in it and ribbons hangingout with names on them. It was fun. My relations all gave me usefulpresents except Aunt Laura. She gave me a bottle of perfume. I loveit. I love nice smells. Aunt Elizabeth does not approve of perfumes.She gave me a new apron but I am thankful to say not a baby one. AuntRuth gave me a New Testament and said “Em’ly, I hope you will read aportion of that every day until you have read it through,” and I said,“Why, Aunt Ruth, I’ve read the whole New Testament a dozen times (andso I have) I _love_ Revelations.” (And I _do_. When I read the verse“and the twelve gates were twelve pearls” I just _saw_ them and theflash came.) “The Bible is not to be read as a story book,” Aunt Ruthsaid coldly. Uncle Wallace and Aunt Eva gave me a pair of black mitsand Uncle Oliver and Aunt Addie gave me a whole dollar in nice newsilver dimes and Cousin Jimmy gave me a hair ribbon. Perry had left asilk bookmark for me. He had to go home to spend Christmas day with hisAunt Tom at Stovepipe Town but I saved a lot of nuts and raisins forhim. I gave him and Teddy handkerchiefs (Teddy’s was a _little_ thenicest) and I gave Ilse a hair ribbon. I bought them myself out of myegg money. (I will not have any more egg money for a long time becausemy hen has stopped laying.) Everybody was happy and once Uncle Wallacesmiled right at me. I did not think him so ugly when he smiled.
“After dinner Ilse and I played games in the kitchen and Cousin Jimmyhelped us make taffy. We had a big supper but nobody could eat muchbecause they had had such a dinner. Aunt Eva’s head ached and Aunt Ruthsaid she didn’t see why Elizabeth made the sausages so rich. But therest were good humored and Aunt Laura kept things pleasant. She is goodat making things pleasant. And after it was all over Uncle Wallace said(this is another Murray tradishun) “Let us think for a few moments ofthose who have gone before.” I liked the way he said it--very solemnlyand kind. It was one of the times when I am glad the blood of theMurrays flows in my vains. And I thought of _you_, darling Father, andMother and poor little Mike and Great-great-Grandmother Murray, and ofmy old account book that Aunt Elizabeth burned, because it seemed justlike a person to me. And then we all joined hands and sung “For AuldLang Syne” before they went home. I didn’t feel like a stranger amongthe Murrays any more. Aunt Laura and I stood out on the porch to watchthem go. Aunt Laura put her arm around me and said, “Your mother and Iused to stand like this long ago, Emily, to watch the Christmas guestsgo away.” The snow creaked and the bells rang back through the treesand the frost on the pighouse roof sparkled in the moonlight. And itwas all so lovely (the bells and the frost and the big shining whitenight) that _the flash_ came and that was best of all.”



CHAPTER XXI
“ROMANTIC BUT NOT COMFORTABLE”

A certain thing happened at New Moon because Teddy Kent paid IlseBurnley a compliment one day and Emily Starr didn’t altogether like it.Empires have been overturned for the same reason.
Teddy was skating on Blair Water and taking Ilse and Emily out inturns for “slides.” Neither Ilse nor Emily had skates. Nobody wassufficiently interested in Ilse to buy skates for her, and as forEmily, Aunt Elizabeth did not approve of girls skating. New Moon girlshad never skated. Aunt Laura had a revolutionary idea that skatingwould be good exercise for Emily and would, moreover, prevent herfrom wearing out the soles of her boots sliding. But neither of thesearguments was sufficient to convince Aunt Elizabeth, in spite of thethrifty streak that came to her from the Burnleys. The latter, however,caused her to issue an edict that Emily was not to “slide.” Emily tookthis very hardly. She moped about in a woe-begone fashion and she wroteto her father, “I _hate_ Aunt Elizabeth. She is so unjust. She neverplays fair.” But one day Dr. Burnley stuck his head in at the door ofthe New Moon kitchen and said gruffly, “What’s this I hear about younot letting Emily slide, Elizabeth?”
“She wears out the soles of her boots,” said Elizabeth.
“Boots be--” the doctor remembered that ladies were present just intime. “Let the creature slide all she wants to. She ought to be inthe open air all the time. She ought”--the doctor stared at Elizabethferociously--“she ought to sleep out of doors.”
Elizabeth trembled lest the doctor should go on to insist on thisunheard-of proceeding. She knew he had absurd ideas about the propertreatment of consumptives and those who might become such. She was gladto appease him by letting Emily stay out-of-doors in daytime and dowhat seemed good to her, if only he would say no more about staying outall night too.
“He is much more concerned about Emily than he is about his own child,”she said bitterly to Laura.
“Ilse is too healthy,” said Aunt Laura with a smile. “If she were adelicate child Allan might forgive her for--for being her mother’sdaughter.”
“S--s--h,” said Aunt Elizabeth. But she “s--s--s--h’d” too late. Emily,coming into the kitchen, had heard Aunt Laura and puzzled over what shehad said all day in school. Why had Ilse to be forgiven for being hermother’s daughter? Everybody was her mother’s daughter, wasn’t she?Wherein did the crime consist? Emily worried over it so much that shewas inattentive to her lessons and Miss Brownell raked her fore and aftwith sarcasm.
It is time we got back to Blair Water where Teddy was just bringingEmily in from a glorious spin clear round the great circle of ice.Ilse was waiting for her turn, on the bank. Her golden cloud of hairaureoled her face and fell in a shimmering wave over her foreheadunder the faded, little red tam she wore. Ilse’s clothes were alwaysfaded. The stinging kiss of the wind had crimsoned her cheeks and hereyes were glowing like amber pools with fire in their hearts. Teddy’sartistic perception saw her beauty and rejoiced in it.
“Isn’t Ilse handsome?” he said.
Emily was not jealous. It never hurt her to hear Ilse praised. Butsomehow she did not like this. Teddy was looking at Ilse altogether_too_ admiringly. It was all, Emily believed, due to that shimmeringfringe on Ilse’s white brows.
“If _I_ had a bang Teddy might think me handsome too,” she thoughtresentfully. “Of course, black hair isn’t as pretty as gold. But myforehead is too high--everybody says so. And I _did_ look nice inTeddy’s picture because he drew some curls over it.”
The matter rankled. Emily thought of it as she went home over the sheenof the crusted snow-field slanting to the light of the winter sunset,and she could not eat her supper because she did not have a bang. Allher long hidden yearning for a bang seemed to come to a head at once.She knew there was no use in coaxing Aunt Elizabeth for one. But whenshe was getting ready for bed that night she stood on a chair so thatshe could see little Emily-in-the-glass, then lifted the curling endsof her long braid and laid them over her forehead. The effect, inEmily’s eyes at least, was very alluring. She suddenly thought--what ifshe cut a bang herself? It would take only a minute. And once done whatcould Aunt Elizabeth do? She would be very angry and doubtless inflictsome kind of punishment. But the bang would be there--at least until itgrew out long.
Emily, her lips set, went for the scissors. She unbraided her hair andparted the front tresses. Snip--snip--went the scissors. Glisteninglocks fell at her feet. In a minute Emily had her long-desired bang.Straight across her brows fell the lustrous, softly curving fringe. Itchanged the whole character of her face. It made it arch, provocative,elusive. For one brief moment Emily gazed at her reflection in triumph.
And then--sheer terror seized her. Oh, what had she done? How angryAunt Elizabeth would be! Conscience suddenly awoke and added its pangalso. She had been wicked. It was wicked to cut a bang when AuntElizabeth had forbidden it. Aunt Elizabeth had given her a home at NewMoon--hadn’t Rhoda Stuart that very day in school twitted her againwith “living on charity”? And she was repaying her by disobedience andingratitude. A Starr should not have done that. In a panic of fearand remorse Emily snatched the scissors and cut the bang off--cut itclose against the hair line. Worse and worse! Emily beheld the resultin dismay. Any one could see that a bang _had_ been cut, so AuntElizabeth’s anger was still to face. And she had made a terrible frightof herself. Emily burst into tears, snatched up the fallen locks andcrammed them into the waste-basket, blew out her candle and sprang intobed, just as Aunt Elizabeth came in.
Emily burrowed face downward in the pillows, and pretended to beasleep. She was afraid Aunt Elizabeth would ask her some question andinsist on her looking up while she answered it. That was a Murraytradition--you looked people in the face when you spoke to them. ButAunt Elizabeth undressed in silence and came to bed. The room was indarkness--thick darkness. Emily sighed and turned over. There was ahot gin-jar in the bed, she knew, and her feet were cold. But she didnot think she ought to have the privilege of the gin-jar. She was toowicked--too ungrateful.
“_Do_ stop squirming,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
Emily squirmed no more--physically at least. Mentally she continued tosquirm. She could not sleep. Her feet or her conscience--or both--kepther awake. And fear, also. She dreaded the morning. Aunt Elizabethwould see then what had happened. If it were only over--if therevelation were only over. Emily forgot and squirmed.
“What makes you so restless tonight?” demanded Aunt Elizabeth, in highdispleasure. “Are you taking a cold?”
“No, ma’am.”
“Then go to sleep. I can’t bear such wriggling. One might as well havean eel in bed--O--W!”
Aunt Elizabeth, in squirming a bit herself, had put her own footagainst Emily’s icy ones.
“Goodness, child, your feet are like snow. Here, put them on thegin-jar.”
Aunt Elizabeth pushed the gin-jar over against Emily’s feet. How lovelyand warm and comforting it was!
Emily worked her toes against it like a cat. But she suddenly knew shecould not wait for morning.
“Aunt Elizabeth, I’ve got something to confess.”
Aunt Elizabeth was tired and sleepy and did not want confessions justthen. In no very gracious tone she said,
“What have you been doing?”
“I--I cut a bang, Aunt Elizabeth.”
“A bang?”
Aunt Elizabeth sat up in bed.
“But I cut it off again,” cried Emily hurriedly. “Right off--close tomy head.”
Aunt Elizabeth got out of bed, lit a candle, and looked Emily over.
“Well you _have_ made a sight of yourself,” she said grimly. “I neversaw any one as ugly as you are this minute. And you have behaved in amost underhanded fashion.”
This was one of the times Emily felt compelled to agree with AuntElizabeth.
“I’m sorry,” she said, lifting pleading eyes.
“You will eat your supper in the pantry for a week,” said AuntElizabeth. “And you will not go to Uncle Oliver’s next week when I go.I had promised to take you. But I shall take no one who looks as you doanywhere with me.”
This was hard. Emily had looked forward to that visit to UncleOliver’s. But on the whole she was relieved. The worst was over and herfeet were getting warm. But there was one thing yet. She might as wellunburden her heart completely while she was at it.
“There’s another thing I feel I ought to tell you.”
Aunt Elizabeth got into bed again with a grunt. Emily took it forpermission.
“Aunt Elizabeth, you remember that book I found in Dr. Burnley’sbookcase and brought home and asked you if I could read it? It wascalled ‘The History of Henry Esmond.’ You looked at it and said you hadno objections to my reading history. So I read it. But, Aunt Elizabeth,it wasn’t history--it was a novel. And I _knew it when I brought ithome_.”
“You know that I have forbidden you to read novels, Emily Starr. Theyare wicked books and have ruined many souls.”
“It was very dull,” pleaded Emily, as if dullness and wickedness werequite incompatible. “And it made me feel unhappy. Everybody seemedto be in love with the wrong person. I have made up my mind, AuntElizabeth, that I will never fall in love. It makes too much trouble.”
“Don’t talk of things you can’t understand, and that are not fit forchildren to think about. This is the result of reading novels. I shalltell Dr. Burnley to lock his bookcase up.”
“Oh, don’t do that, Aunt Elizabeth,” exclaimed Emily. “There are nomore novels in it. But I’m reading such an interesting book over there.It tells about everything that’s inside of you. I’ve got as far alongas the liver and its diseases. The pictures are so interesting. Pleaselet me finish it.”
This was worse than novels. Aunt Elizabeth was truly horrified. Thingsthat were inside of you were not to be read about.
“Have you no shame, Emily Starr? If you have not I am ashamed for you.Little girls do not read books like that.”
“But, Aunt Elizabeth, why not? I _have_ a liver, haven’t I--and heartand lungs--and stomach--and--”
“That will do, Emily. Not another word.”
Emily went to sleep unhappily. She wished she had never said a wordabout ‘Esmond.’ And she knew she would never have a chance to finishthat other fascinating book. Nor had she. Dr. Burnley’s bookcase waslocked thereafter and the doctor gruffly ordered her and Ilse to keepout of his office. He was in a very bad humour about it for he hadwords with Elizabeth Murray over the matter.
Emily was not allowed to forget her bang. She was twitted and teasedin school about it and Aunt Elizabeth looked at it whenever she lookedat Emily and the contempt in her eyes burned Emily like a flame.Nevertheless, as the mistreated hair grew out and began to curl insoft little ringlets, Emily found consolation. The bang was tacitlypermitted, and she felt that her looks were greatly improved thereby.Of course, as soon as it grew long enough she knew Aunt Elizabeth wouldmake her brush it back. But for the time being she took comfort in heradded beauty.
The bang was just about at its best when the letter came fromGreat-Aunt Nancy.
It was written to Aunt Laura--Great-Aunt Nancy and Aunt Elizabeth werenot over-fond of each other--and in it Great-Aunt Nancy said, “If youhave a photograph of that child Emily send it along. I don’t want tosee _her_; she’s stupid--I know she’s stupid. But I want to see whatJuliet’s child looks like. Also the child of that fascinating youngman, Douglas Starr. He _was_ fascinating. What fools you all wereto make such a fuss about Juliet running away with him. If you andElizabeth had _both_ run away with somebody in your running days itwould have been better for you.”
This letter was not shown to Emily. Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura hada long secret consultation and then Emily was told that she was to betaken to Shrewsbury to have her picture taken for Aunt Nancy. Emilywas much excited over this. She was dressed in her blue cashmere andAunt Laura put a point lace collar on it and hung her Venetian beadsover it. And new buttoned boots were got for the occasion.
“I’m so glad this has happened while I still have my bang,” thoughtEmily happily.
But in the photographer’s dressing-room, Aunt Elizabeth grimlyproceeded to brush back her bang and pin it with hairpins.
“Oh, please, Aunt Elizabeth, let me have it down,” Emily begged. “Justfor the picture. After this I’ll brush it back.”
Aunt Elizabeth was inexorable. The bang was brushed back and thephotograph taken. When Aunt Elizabeth saw the finished result she wassatisfied.
“She looks sulky; but she is neat; and there is a resemblance to theMurrays I never noticed before,” she told Aunt Laura. “That will pleaseAunt Nancy. She is very clannish under all her oddness.”
Emily would have liked to throw every one of the photographs in thefire. She hated them. They made her look hideous. Her face seemed tobe _all_ forehead. If they sent Aunt Nancy that Aunt Nancy would thinkher stupider than ever. When Aunt Elizabeth did the photograph up incardboard and told Emily to take it to the office Emily already knewwhat she meant to do. She went straight to the garret and took out ofher box the water-colour Teddy had made of her. It was just the samesize as the photograph. Emily removed the latter from its wrappings,spurning it aside with her foot.
“That isn’t _me_,” she said. “I looked sulky because I felt sulky aboutthe bang. But I hardly ever look sulky, so it isn’t fair.”
She wrapped Teddy’s sketch up in the cardboard and then sat down andwrote a letter.
“DEAR GREAT-AUNT NANCY:
“Aunt Elizabeth had my picture taken to send you but I don’t like itbecause it makes me look too ugly and I am putting another picture ininstead. An _artist friend_ made it for me. It is just like me when I’msmiling and have a bang. I am only _lending_ it to you, not _giving_it, because I valew it very highly.
                     “Your obedient grand niece,                                  “EMILY BYRD STARR.
“P. S. I am not so stupid as you think.
                                           “E. B. S.“P. S. No. 2. I am not stupid _at all_.”
Emily put her letter in with the picture--thereby unconsciouslycheating the post-office--and slipped out of the house to mail it.Once it was safely in the post-office she drew a breath of relief. Shefound the walk home very enjoyable. It was a bland day in early Apriland spring was looking at you round the corners. The Wind Woman waslaughing and whistling over the wet sweet fields; freebooting crowsheld conferences in the tree tops; little pools of sunshine lay in themossy hollows; the sea was a blaze of sapphire beyond the golden dunes;the maples in Lofty John’s bush were talking about red buds. EverythingEmily had ever read of dream and myth and legend seemed a part of thecharm of that bush. She was filled to her finger-tips with a rapture ofliving.
“Oh, I smell spring!” she cried as she danced along the brook path.
Then she began to compose a poem on it. Everybody who has ever lived inthe world and could string two rhymes together has written a poem onspring. It is the most be-rhymed subject in the world--and always willbe, because it is poetry incarnate itself. You can never be a realpoet if you haven’t made at least one poem about spring.
Emily was wondering whether she would have elves dancing on thebrookside by moonlight, or pixies sleeping in a bed of ferns in herpoem, when something confronted her at a bend in the path which wasneither elf nor pixy, but seemed odd and weird enough to belong to someof the tribes of Little People. Was it a witch? Or an elderly fay ofevil intentions--the bad fairy of all christening tales?
“I’m the b’y’s Aunt Tom,” said the appearance, seeing that Emily wastoo amazed to do anything but stand and stare.
“Oh!” Emily gasped in relief. She was no longer frightened. But what a_very_ peculiar looking lady Perry’s Aunt Tom was. Old--so old that itseemed quite impossible that she could ever have been young; a brightred hood over crone-like, fluttering grey locks; a little face seamedby a thousand fine, criss-cross wrinkles; a long nose with a knob onthe end of it; little twinkling, eager, grey eyes under bristly brows;a ragged man’s coat covering her from neck to feet; a basket in onehand and a black knobby stick in the other.
“Staring wasn’t thought good breeding in my time,” said Aunt Tom.
“Oh!” said Emily again. “Excuse me-- How do you do!” she added, with avague grasp after her manners.
“Polite--and not too proud,” said Aunt Tom, peering curiously at her.“I’ve been up to the big house with a pair of socks for the b’y but’twas yourself I wanted to see.”
“Me?” said Emily blankly.
“Yis. The b’y has been talking a bit of you and a plan kem into myhead. Thinks I to myself it’s no bad notion. But I’ll make sure beforeI waste my bit o’ money. Emily Byrd Starr is your name and Murray isyour nature. If I give the b’y an eddication will ye marry him when yegrow up?”
“Me!” said Emily again. It seemed to be all she could say. Was shedreaming? She _must_ be.
“Yis--you. You’re half Murray and it’ll be a great step up f’r the b’y.He’s smart and he’ll be a rich man some day and boss the country. Butdivil a cent will I spend on him unless you promise.”
“Aunt Elizabeth wouldn’t let me,” cried Emily, too frightened of thisodd old body to refuse on her own account.
“If you’ve got any Murray in you you’ll do your own choosing,” saidAunt Tom, thrusting her face so close to Emily’s that her bushyeyebrows tickled Emily’s nose. “Say you’ll marry the b’y and to collegehe goes.”
Emily seemed to be rendered speechless. She could think of nothing tosay--oh, if she could _only_ wake up! She could not even run.
“Say it!” insisted Aunt Tom, thumping her stick sharply on a stone inthe path.
Emily was so horrified that she might have said something--anything--toescape. But at this moment Perry bounded out of the spruce copse, hisface white with rage, and seized his Aunt Tom most disrespectfully bythe shoulder.
“You go home!” he said furiously.
“Now, b’y dear,” quavered Aunt Tom deprecatingly. “I was only trying todo you a good turn. I was asking her to marry ye after a bit an--”
“I’ll do my own asking!” Perry was angrier than ever. “You’ve likelyspoiled everything. Go home--go home, I say!”
Aunt Tom hobbled off muttering, “Then I’ll know better than to waste mebit o’ money. No Murray, no money, me b’y.”
When she had disappeared down the brook path Perry turned to Emily.From white he had gone very red.
“Don’t mind her--she’s cracked,” he said. “Of course, when I grow up Imean to ask you to marry me but--”
“I couldn’t--Aunt Elizabeth--”
“Oh, she will then. I’m going to be premier of Canada some day.”
“But I wouldn’t want--I’m sure I wouldn’t--”
“You will when you grow up. Ilse is better looking of course, and Idon’t know why I like you best but I do.”
“Don’t you ever talk to me like this again!” commanded Emily, beginningto recover her dignity.
“Oh, I won’t--not till we grow up. I’m as ashamed of it as you are,”said Perry with a sheepish grin. “Only I had to say something afterAunt Tom butted in like that. I ain’t to blame for it so don’t you holdit against me. But just you remember that I’m going to ask you someday. And I believe Teddy Kent is too.”
Emily was walking haughtily away but she turned at this to say coollyover her shoulder,
“If he does I’ll marry him.”
“If you do I’ll knock his head off,” shouted Perry in a prompt rage.
But Emily walked steadily on home and went to the garret to thinkthings over.
“It has been romantic but not comfortable,” was her conclusion. Andthat particular poem on spring was never finished.



CHAPTER XXII
WYTHER GRANGE

No reply or acknowledgement came from Great-Aunt Nancy Priest regardingEmily’s picture. Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laura, knowing Great-AuntNancy’s ways tolerably well, were not surprised at this, but Emilyfelt rather worried over it. Perhaps Great-Aunt Nancy did not approveof what she had done; or perhaps she still thought her too stupid tobother with.
Emily did not like to lie under the imputation of stupidity. She wrotea scathing epistle to Great-Aunt Nancy on a letter-bill in which shedid not mince her opinions as to that ancient lady’s knowledge of therules of epistolary etiquette; the letter was folded up and stowed awayon the little shelf under the sofa but it served its purpose in blowingoff steam and Emily had ceased to think about the matter when a lettercame from Great-Aunt Nancy in July.
Elizabeth and Laura talked the matter over in the cook-house, forgetfulor ignorant of the fact that Emily was sitting on the kitchen doorstepjust outside. Emily was imagining herself attending a drawing-room ofQueen Victoria. Robed in white, with ostrich plumes, veil, and courttrain, she had just bent to kiss the Queen’s hand when Aunt Elizabeth’svoice shattered her dream as a pebble thrown into a pool scatters thefairy reflection.
“What is your opinion, Laura,” Aunt Elizabeth was saying, “of lettingEmily visit Aunt Nancy?”
Emily pricked up her ears. What was in the wind now?
“From her letter she seems very anxious to have the child,” said Laura.
Elizabeth sniffed.
“A whim--a whim. You know what her whims are. Likely by the time Emilygot there she’d be quite over it and have no use for her.”
“Yes, but on the other hand if we don’t let her go she will bedreadfully offended and never forgive us--or Emily. Emily should haveher chance.”
“I don’t know that her chance is worth much. If Aunt Nancy really hasany money beyond her annuity--and that’s what neither you nor I nor anyliving soul knows, unless it’s Caroline--she’ll likely leave it all tosome of the Priests--Leslie Priest’s a favourite of hers, I understand.Aunt Nancy always liked her husband’s family better than her own, eventhough she’s always slurring at them. Still--she _might_ take a fancyto Emily--they’re both so odd they might suit each other--but you knowthe way she talks--she and that abominable old Caroline.”
“Emily is too young to understand,” said Aunt Laura.
“I understand more than you think,” cried Emily indignantly.
Aunt Elizabeth jerked open the cook-house door.
“Emily Starr, haven’t you learned by this time not to listen?”
“I wasn’t listening. I thought you knew I was sitting here--I can’thelp my ears _hearing_. Why didn’t you _whisper_? When you whisper Iknow you’re talking secrets and I don’t try to hear them. Am I going toGreat-Aunt Nancy’s for a visit?”
“We haven’t decided,” said Aunt Elizabeth coldly, and that was all thesatisfaction Emily got for a week. She hardly knew herself whether shewanted to go or not. Aunt Elizabeth had begun making cheese--New Moonwas noted for its cheeses--and Emily found the whole process absorbing,from the time the rennet was put in the warm new milk till the whitecurds were packed away in the hoop and put under the press in the oldorchard, with the big, round, grey “cheese” stone to weight it down asit had weighed down New Moon cheeses for a hundred years. And then sheand Ilse and Teddy and Perry were absorbed heart and soul in “playingout” the “Midsummer Night’s Dream” in Lofty John’s bush and it wasvery fascinating. When they entered Lofty John’s bush they went out ofthe realm of daylight and things known into the realm of twilight andmystery and enchantment. Teddy had painted wonderful scenery on oldboards and pieces of sails, which Perry had got at the Harbor. Ilsehad fashioned delightful fairy wings from tissue paper and tinsel, andPerry had made an ass’s head for _Bottom_ out of an old calf-skin thatwas very realistic. Emily had toiled happily for many weeks copyingout the different parts and adapting them to circumstances. She had“cut” the play after a fashion that would have harrowed Shakespeare’ssoul but after all the result was quite pretty and coherent. It did notworry them that four small actors had to take six times as many parts.Emily was _Titania_ and _Hermia_ and a job lot of fairies besides, Ilsewas _Hippolyta_ and _Helena_, plus some more fairies, and the boys wereanything that the dialogue required. Aunt Elizabeth knew nothing of itall; she would promptly have put a stop to the whole thing, for shethought play-acting exceedingly wicked; but Aunt Laura was privy to theplot, and Cousin Jimmy and Lofty John had already attended a moonlightrehearsal.
To go away and leave all this, even for a time, would be a hard wrench,but on the other hand Emily had a burning curiosity to see Great-AuntNancy and Wyther Grange, her quaint, old house at Priest Pond withthe famous stone dogs on the gateposts. On the whole, she thought shewould like to go; and when she saw Aunt Laura doing up her starchedwhite petticoats and Aunt Elizabeth grimly dusting off a small, black,nail-studded trunk in the garret she knew, before she was told, thatthe visit to Priest Pond was going to come off; so she took out theletter she had written to Aunt Nancy and added an apologetic postscript.
Ilse chose to be disgruntled because Emily was going for a visit. Inreality Ilse felt appalled at the lonely prospect of a month or morewithout her inseparable chum. No more jolly evenings of play-acting inLofty John’s bush, no more pungent quarrels. Besides, Ilse herself hadnever been anywhere for a visit in her whole life and she felt soreover this fact.
“_I_ wouldn’t go to Wyther Grange for anything,” said Ilse. “It’shaunted.”
“’Tisn’t.”
“Yes! It’s haunted by a ghost you can _feel_ and _hear_ but never_see_. Oh, I wouldn’t be _you_ for the world! Your Great-Aunt Nancy isan _awful crank_ and the old woman who lives with her is a _witch_.She’ll put a spell on you. You’ll pine away and die.”
“I won’t--she isn’t!”
“_Is!_ Why, she makes the stone dogs on the gateposts howl every nightif any one comes near the place. They go, ‘_Wo-or-oo-oo_.’”
Ilse was not a born elocutionist for nothing. Her “wo-or-oo-oo” wasextremely gruesome. But it was daylight, and Emily was as brave as alion in daylight.
“You’re jealous,” she said, and walked off.
“I’m not, you blithering centipede,” Ilse yelled after her. “Puttingon airs because your aunt has stone dogs on her gateposts! Why, I knowa woman in Shrewsbury who has dogs on her posts that are ten timesstonier than your aunt’s!”
But next morning Ilse was over to bid Emily good-bye and entreat herto write every week. Emily was going to drive to Priest Pond with OldKelly. Aunt Elizabeth was to have driven her but Aunt Elizabeth was notfeeling well that day and Aunt Laura could not leave her. Cousin Jimmyhad to work at the hay. It looked as if she could not go, and this wasrather serious, for Aunt Nancy had been told to expect her that dayand Aunt Nancy did not like to be disappointed. If Emily did not turnup at Priest Pond on the day set Great-Aunt Nancy was quite capable ofshutting the door in her face when she did appear and telling her to goback home. Nothing less than this conviction would have induced AuntElizabeth to fall in with Old Kelly’s suggestion that Emily should rideto Priest Pond with him. His home was on the other side of it and hewas going straight there.
Emily was quite delighted. She liked Old Kelly and thought that a driveon his fine red wagon would be quite an adventure. Her little blackbox was hoisted to the roof and tied there and they went clinking andglittering down the New Moon lane in fine style. The tins in the bowelsof the wagon behind them rumbled like a young earthquake.
“Get up, my nag, get up,” said Old Kelly. “Sure, an’ I always like todrive the pretty gurrls. An’ when is the wedding to be?”
“Whose wedding?”
“The slyness av her! Your own, av coorse.”
“I have no intention of being married--immediately,” said Emily, in avery good imitation of Aunt Elizabeth’s tone and manner.
“Sure, and ye’re a chip av the ould block. Miss Elizabeth herselfcouldn’t have said it better. Get up, my nag, get up.”
“I only meant,” said Emily, fearing that she had insulted Old Kelly,“that I am too young to be married.”
“The younger the better--the less mischief ye’ll be after working withthem come-hither eyes. Get up, my nag, get up. The baste is tired. Sowe’ll let him go at his own swate will. Here’s a bag av swaties for ye.Ould Kelley always trates the ladies. Come now, tell me all about him.”
“About who?”--but Emily knew quite well.
“Your beau, av coorse.”
“I haven’t _any_ beau. Mr. Kelly, I wish you wouldn’t talk to me aboutsuch things.”
“Sure, and I won’t if ’tis a sore subject. Don’t ye be minding if yehaven’t got one--there’ll be scads av them after a while. And if theright one doesn’t know what’s good for him, just ye come to Ould Kellyand get some toad ointment.”
Toad ointment! It sounded horrible. Emily shivered. But she wouldrather talk about toad ointment than beaux.
“What is that for?”
“It’s a love charm,” said Old Kelly mysteriously. “Put a li’l smootchon his eyelids and he’s yourn for life with never a squint at any othergurrl.”
“It doesn’t _sound_ very nice,” said Emily. “How do you make it?”
“You bile four toads alive till they’re good and soft and then mash--”
“Oh, stop, stop!” implored Emily, putting her hands to her ears. “Idon’t want to hear any more--you couldn’t be so cruel!”
“Cruel is it? You were after eating lobsters this day that were biledalive--”
“I don’t believe it. I don’t. If it’s true I’ll never, never eat oneagain. Oh, Mr. Kelly, I thought you were a nice kind man--but thosepoor toads!”
“Gurrl dear, it was only me joke. An’ you won’t be nading toad ointmentto win your lad’s love. Wait you now--I’ve something in the till behindme for a prisent for you.”
Old Kelly fished out a box which he put into Emily’s lap. She found adainty little hairbrush in it.
“Look at the back av it,” said Old Kelly. “You’ll see somethinghandsome--all the love charm ye’ll ever nade.”
Emily turned it over. Her own face looked back at her from a littleinset mirror surrounded by a scroll of painted roses.
“Oh, Mr. Kelly--how pretty--I mean the roses and the glass,” shecried. “Is it really for me? Oh, thank you, thank you! Now, I can haveEmily-in-the-glass whenever I want her. Why, I can carry her round withme. And you were really only in fun about the toads!”
“Av coorse. Get up, my nag, get up. An’ so ye’re going to visit theould lady over at Praste Pond? Ever been there?”
“No.”
“It’s full of Prastes. Ye can’t throw a stone but ye hit one. And hitone--hit all. They’re as proud and lofty as the Murrays themselves.The only wan I know is Adam Praste--the others hold too high. He’sthe black shape and quite sociable. But if ye want to see how theworld looked on the morning after the flood go into his barnyard ona rainy day. Look a-here, gurrl dear”--Old Kelly lowered his voicemysteriously--“don’t ye ever marry a Praste.”
“Why not?” asked Emily, who had never thought of marrying a Priest butwas immediately curious as to why she shouldn’t.
“They’re ill to marry--ill to live with. The wives die young. The ouldlady of the Grange fought her man out and buried him but she had theMurray luck. I wouldn’t trust it too far. The only dacent Praste amongthem is the wan they call Jarback Praste and he’s too ould for you.”
“Why do they call him Jarback?”
“Wan av his shoulders is a l’il bit higher than the other. He’s got abit of money and doesn’t be after having to work. A book worrum, I’mbelaving. Have ye got a bit av cold iron about you?”
“No; why?”
“Ye should have. Old Caroline Praste at the Grange is a witch if everthere was one.”
“Why, that’s what Ilse said. But there are no such thing as witchesreally, Mr. Kelly.”
“Maybe that’s thrue but it’s better to be on the safe side. Here, putthis horseshoe-nail in your pocket and don’t cross her if ye can helpit. Ye don’t mind if I have a bit av a smoke, do ye?”
Emily did not mind at all. It left her free to follow her own thoughts,which were more agreeable than Old Kelly’s talk of toads and witches.The road from Blair Water to Priest Pond was a very lovely one,winding along the gulf shore, crossing fir fringed rivers and inlets,and coming ever and anon on one of the ponds for which that part ofthe north shore was noted--Blair Water, Derry Pond, Long Pond, ThreePonds where three blue lakelets were strung together like three greatsapphires held by a silver thread; and then Priest Pond, the largestof all, almost as round as Blair Water. As they drove down towards itEmily drank the scene in with avid eyes--as soon as possible she mustwrite a description of it; she had packed the Jimmy blank book in herbox for just such purposes.
The air seemed to be filled with opal dust over the great pond and thebowery summer homesteads around it. A western sky of smoky red wasarched over the big Malvern Bay beyond. Little grey sails were driftingalong by the fir-fringed shores. A sequestered side road, fringedthickly with young maples and birches, led down to Wyther Grange. Howdamp and cool the air was in the hollows! And how the ferns did smell!Emily was sorry when they reached Wyther Grange and climbed in betweenthe gateposts whereon the big stone dogs sat very stonily, looking grimenough in the twilight.
The wide hall door was open and a flood of light streamed out over thelawn. A little old woman was standing in it. Old Kelly seemed suddenlyin something of a hurry. He swung Emily and her box to the ground,shook hands hastily and whispered, “Don’t lose that bit av a nail.Good-bye. I wish ye a cool head and a warm heart,” and was off beforethe little old woman could reach them.
“So this is Emily of New Moon!” Emily heard a rather shrill, crackedvoice saying. She felt a thin, claw-like hand grasp hers and draw hertowards the door. There were no witches, Emily knew,--but she thrusther hand into her pocket and touched the horseshoe-nail.



CHAPTER XXIII
DEALS WITH GHOSTS

“Your aunt is in the back parlor,” said Caroline Priest. “Come thisway. Are you tired?”
“No,” said Emily, following Caroline and taking her in thoroughly.If Caroline were a witch she was a very small one. She was really notaller than Emily herself. She wore a black silk dress and a littlestring cap of black net edged with black ruching on her yellowishwhite hair. Her face was more wrinkled than Emily had ever supposed aface could be and she had the peculiar grey-green eyes which, as Emilyafterwards discovered, “ran” in the Priest clan.
“You may be a witch,” thought Emily, “but I think I can manage _you_.”
They went through the spacious hall, catching glimpses on either sideof large, dim, splendid rooms, then through the kitchen end out of itinto an odd little back hall. It was long and narrow and dark. On oneside was a row of four, square, small-paned windows, on the other werecupboards, reaching from floor to ceiling, with doors of black shiningwood. Emily felt like one of the heroines in Gothic romance, wanderingat midnight through a subterranean dungeon, with some unholy guide. Shehad read “The Mysteries of Udolpho” and “The Romance of the Forest”before the taboo had fallen on Dr. Burnley’s bookcase. She shivered. Itwas awful but interesting.
At the end of the hall a flight of four steps led up to a door. Besidethe steps was an immense black grandfather’s clock reaching almost tothe ceiling.
“We shut little girls up in that when they’re bad,” whisperedCaroline, nodding at Emily, as she opened the door that led into theback parlour.
“I’ll take good care you won’t shut _me_ up in it,” thought Emily.
The back parlour was a pretty, quaint old room where a table was laidfor supper. Caroline led Emily through it and knocked at another door,using a quaint old brass knocker that was fashioned like a chessy-cat,with such an irresistible grin that you wanted to grin, too, when yousaw it. Somebody said, “Come in,” and they went down another foursteps--was there ever such a funny house?--into a bedroom. And here atlast was Great-Aunt Nancy Priest, sitting in her arm-chair, with herblack stick leaning against her knee, and her tiny white hands, stillpretty, and sparkling with fine rings, lying on her purple silk apron.
Emily felt a distinct shock of disappointment. After hearing that poemin which Nancy Murray’s beauty of nut-brown hair and starry brown eyesand cheek of satin rose had been be-rhymed she had somehow expectedGreat-Aunt Nancy, in spite of her ninety years, to be beautiful still.But Aunt Nancy was white-haired and yellow-skinned and wrinkled andshrunken, though her brown eyes were still bright and shrewd. Somehow,she looked like an old fairy--an impish, tolerant old fairy, who mightturn suddenly malevolent if you rubbed her the wrong way--only fairiesnever wore long, gold-tasselled earrings that almost touched theirshoulders, or white lace caps with purple pansies in them.
“So this is Juliet’s girl!” she said, giving Emily one of her sparklinghands. “Don’t look so startled, child. I’m not going to kiss you. Inever held with inflicting kisses on defenseless creatures simplybecause they were so unlucky as to be my relatives. Now, who does shelook like, Caroline?”
Emily made a mental grimace. Now for another ordeal of comparisons,wherein dead-and-gone noses and eyes and foreheads would be draggedout and fitted on her. She was thoroughly tired of having her lookstalked over in every gathering of the clans.
“Not much like the Murrays,” said Caroline, peering so closely intoher face that Emily involuntarily drew back. “Not so handsome as theMurrays.”
“Nor the Starrs either. Her father was a handsome man--so handsome thatI’d have run away with him myself if I’d been fifty years younger.There’s nothing of Juliet in her that I can see. Juliet was pretty.You are not as good-looking as that picture made you out but I didn’texpect you would be. Pictures and epitaphs are never to be trusted.Where’s your bang gone, Emily?”
“Aunt Elizabeth combed it back.”
“Well, you comb it down again while you’re in my house. There’ssomething of your Grandfather Murray about your eye-brows. Yourgrandfather was a handsome man--and a darned bad-tempered one--almostas bad-tempered as the Priests,--hey, Caroline?”
“If you please, Great-Aunt Nancy,” said Emily deliberately, “I don’tlike to be told I look like other people. I look just like myself.”
Aunt Nancy chuckled.
“Spunk, I see. Good. I never cared for meek youngsters. So you’re notstupid, eh?”
“No, I’m not.”
Great-Aunt Nancy grinned this time. Her false teeth looked uncannilywhite and young in her old, brown face.
“Good. If you’ve brains it’s better than beauty--brains last, beautydoesn’t. Me, for example. Caroline here, now, never had either brainsnor beauty, had you, Caroline? Come, let’s go to supper. Thankgoodness, my stomach has stood by me if my good looks haven’t.”
Great-Aunt Nancy hobbled, by the aid of her stick, up the steps andover to the table. She sat at one end, Caroline at the other, Emilybetween, feeling rather uncomfortable. But the ruling passion was stillstrong in her and she was already composing a description of them forthe blank book.
“I wonder if anybody will be sorry when you die,” she thought, lookingintently at Caroline’s wizened old face.
“Come now, tell me,” said Aunt Nancy. “If you’re not stupid, why didyou write me such a stupid letter that first time. Lord, but it wasstupid! I read it over to Caroline to punish her whenever she isnaughty.”
“I couldn’t write any other kind of a letter because Aunt Elizabethsaid she was going to read it.”
“Trust Elizabeth for that. Well, you can write what you like here--andsay what you like--and do what you like. Nobody will interfere with youor try to bring you up. I asked you for a visit, not for discipline.Thought likely you’d have enough of that at New Moon. You can havethe run of the house and pick a beau to your liking from the Priestboys--not that the young fry are what they were in my time.”
“I don’t want a beau,” retorted Emily. She felt rather disgusted. OldKelly had ranted about beaux half the way over and here was Aunt Nancybeginning on the same unnecessary subject.
“Don’t you tell me,” said Aunt Nancy, laughing till her gold tasselsshook. “There never was a Murray of New Moon that didn’t like a beau.When I was your age I had half a dozen. All the little boys in BlairWater were fighting about me. Caroline here now never had a beau in herlife, had you, Caroline?”
“Never wanted one,” snapped Caroline.
“Eighty and twelve say the same thing and both lie,” said Aunt Nancy.“What’s the use of being hypocrites among ourselves? I don’t say itisn’t well enough when men are about. Caroline, do you notice whata pretty hand Emily has? As pretty as mine when I was young. And anelbow like a cat’s. Cousin Susan Murray had an elbow like that. It’sodd--she has more Murray points than Starr points and yet she lookslike the Starrs and not like the Murrays. What odd sums in addition weall are--the answer is never what you’d expect. Caroline, what a pityJarback isn’t home. He’d like Emily--I have a feeling he’d like Emily.Jarback’s the only Priest that’ll ever go to heaven, Emily. Let’s havea look at your ankles, puss.”
Emily rather unwillingly put out her foot. Aunt Nancy nodded hersatisfaction.
“Mary Shipley’s ankle. Only one in a generation has it. I had it. TheMurray ankles are thick. Even your mother’s ankles were thick. Look atthat instep, Caroline. Emily, you’re not a beauty but if you learn touse your eyes and hands and feet properly you’ll pass for one. The menare easily fooled and if the women say you’re not ’twill be held forjealousy.”
Emily decided that this was a good opportunity to find out somethingthat had puzzled her.
“Old Mr. Kelly said I had come-hither eyes, Aunt Nancy. Have I? And_what_ are come-hither eyes?”
“Jock Kelly’s an old ass. You haven’t come-hither eyes--it wouldn’tbe a Murray tradish.” Aunt Nancy laughed. “The Murrays havekeep-your-distance eyes--and so have you--though your lashes contradictthem a bit. But sometimes eyes like that--combined with certainother points--are quite as effective as come-hither eyes. Men go bycontraries oftener than not--if you tell them to keep off they’ll comeon. My own Nathaniel now--the only way to get him to do anything was tocoax him to do the opposite. Remember, Caroline? Have another cooky,Emily?”
“I haven’t had one yet,” said Emily, rather resentfully.
Those cookies looked very tempting and she had been wishing they mightbe passed. She didn’t know why Aunt Nancy and Caroline both laughed.Caroline’s laugh was unpleasant--a dry, rusty sort of laugh--“no juicein it,” Emily decided. She thought she would write in her descriptionthat Caroline had a “thin, rattling laugh.”
“What do you think of us?” demanded Aunt Nancy. “Come now, what _do_you think of us?”
Emily was dreadfully embarrassed. She had just been thinking of writingthat Aunt Nancy looked “withered and shrivelled;” but one couldn’t saythat--one _couldn’t_.
“Tell the truth and shame the devil,” said Aunt Nancy.
“That isn’t a fair question,” cried Emily.
“You think,” said Aunt Nancy, grinning, “that I’m a hideous old hagand that Caroline isn’t quite human. She isn’t. She never was--but youshould have seen _me_ seventy years ago. I was handsomest of all thehandsome Murrays. The men were mad about me. When I married Nat Priesthis three brothers could have cut his throat. One cut his own. Oh, Iplayed havoc in my time. All I regret is I can’t live it over. ’Twasa grand life while it lasted. I queened it over them. The women hatedme, of course--all but Caroline here. You worshipped me, didn’t you,Caroline? And you worship me yet, don’t you, Caroline? Caroline, I_wish_ you didn’t have a wart on your nose.”
“I wish you had one on your tongue,” said Caroline waspishly.
Emily was beginning to feel tired and bewildered. It wasinteresting--and Aunt Nancy was kind enough in her queer way; but athome Ilse and Perry and Teddy would be foregathering in Lofty John’sbush for their evening revel, and Saucy Sal would be sitting on thedairy steps, waiting for Cousin Jimmy to give her the froth. Emilysuddenly realized that she was as homesick for New Moon as she had beenfor Maywood her first night at New Moon.
“The child’s tired,” said Aunt Nancy. “Take her to bed, Caroline. Puther in the Pink Room.”
Emily followed Caroline through the back hall, through the kitchen,through the front hall, up the stairs, down a long hall, through a longside hall. Where on earth was she being taken? Finally they reached alarge room. Caroline set down the lamp, and asked Emily if she had anightgown.
“Of course I have. Do you suppose Aunt Elizabeth would have let me comewithout one?”
Emily was quite indignant.
“Nancy says you can sleep as long as you like in the morning,” saidCaroline. “Good-night. Nancy and I sleep in the old wing, of course,and the rest of us sleep well in our graves.”
With this cryptic remark Caroline trotted out and shut the door.
Emily sat down on an embroidered ottoman and looked about her. Thewindow curtains were of faded pink brocade and the walls were hungwith pink paper decorated with diamonds of rose chains. It made a verypretty fairy paper, as Emily found by cocking her eyes at it. There wasa green carpet on the floor, so lavishly splashed with big pink rosesthat Emily was almost afraid to walk on it. She decided that the roomwas a very splendid one.
“But I have to sleep here alone, so I must say my prayers verycarefully,” she reflected.
She undressed rather hastily, blew out the light and got into bed. Shecovered herself up to her chin and lay there, staring at the high,white ceiling. She had grown so used to Aunt Elizabeth’s curtainedbed that she felt curiously unsheltered in this low, modern one. Butat least the window was wide open--evidently Aunt Nancy did not shareAunt Elizabeth’s horror of night air. Through it Emily could see summerfields lying in the magic of a rising yellow moon. But the room wasbig and ghostly. She felt horribly far away from everybody. She waslonesome--homesick. She thought of Old Kelly and his toad ointment.Perhaps he _did_ boil the toads alive after all. This hideous thoughttormented her. It was _awful_ to think of toads--or anything--beingboiled alive. She had never slept alone before. Suddenly she wasfrightened. How the window rattled. It sounded terribly as ifsomebody--or _something_--were trying to get in. She thought of Ilse’sghost--a ghost you couldn’t _see_ but could _hear_ and _feel_ wassomething especially spooky in the way of ghosts--she thought of thestone dogs that went “Wo--or--oo--oo” at midnight. A dog _did_ begin tohowl somewhere. Emily felt a cold perspiration on her brow. _What_ hadCaroline meant about the rest of them sleeping well in their graves?The floor creaked. Wasn’t there somebody--or _something_--tiptoeinground outside the door? Didn’t something move in the corner? There weremysterious sounds in the long hall.
“I _won’t_ be scared,” said Emily. “I _won’t_ think of those things,and tomorrow I’ll write down all about how I feel now.”
And then--she _did_ hear something--right behind the wall at the headof her bed. There was no mistake about it. It was not imagination. Sheheard distinctly strange uncanny rustles--as if stiff silk dresseswere rubbing against each other--as if fluttering wings fanned theair--and there were soft, low, muffled sounds like tiny children’scries or moans. They lasted--they kept on. Now and then they would dieaway--then start up again.
Emily cowered under the bedclothes, cold with real terror. Before, herfright had been only on the surface--she had _known_ there was nothingto fear, even while she feared. Something in her braced her to endure.But _this_ was no mistake--no imagination. The rustles and flutteringsand cries and moans were all too real. Wyther Grange suddenly becamea dreadful, uncanny place. Ilse was right--it _was_ haunted. And shewas all alone here, with miles of rooms and halls between her and anyhuman being. It was cruel of Aunt Nancy to put her in a haunted room.Aunt Nancy must have known it was haunted--cruel old Aunt Nancy withher ghoulish pride in men who had killed themselves for her. Oh, ifshe were back in dear New Moon, with Aunt Elizabeth beside her. AuntElizabeth was not an ideal bedfellow but she was flesh-and-blood. Andif the windows were hermetically sealed they kept out spooks as well asnight air.
“Perhaps it won’t be so bad if I say my prayers over again,” thoughtEmily.
But even this didn’t help much.
To the end of her life Emily never forgot that first horrible night atWyther Grange. She was so tired that sometimes she dozed fitfully offonly to be awakened in a few minutes in panic horror, by the rustlingand muffled moans behind her bed. Every ghost and groan, every torturedspirit and bleeding nun of the books she had read came into her mind.
“Aunt Elizabeth was right--novels aren’t fit to read,” she thought.“Oh, I will die here--of fright--I know I will. I know I’m a coward--Ican’t be brave.”
When morning came the room was bright with sunshine and free frommysterious sounds. Emily got up, dressed and found her way to the oldwing. She was pale, with black-ringed eyes, but resolute.
“Well, and how did you sleep?” asked Aunt Nancy graciously.
Emily ignored the question.
“I want to go home today,” she said.
Aunt Nancy stared.
“Home? Nonsense! Are you such a homesick baby as that?”
“I’m not homesick--not _very_--but I must go home.”
“You can’t--there’s no one here to take you. You don’t expect Carolinecan drive you to Blair Water, do you?”
“Then I will walk.”
Aunt Nancy thumped her stick angrily on the floor.
“You will stay right here until I’m ready for you to go, Miss Puss. Inever tolerate any whims but my own. Caroline knows that, don’t you,Caroline? Sit down to your breakfast--and eat--_eat_.”
Aunt Nancy glared at Emily.
“I won’t stay here,” said Emily. “I won’t stay another night in thathorrible haunted room. It was cruel of you to put me there. If--” Emilygave Aunt Nancy glare for glare--“if I was Salome I’d ask for _your_head on a charger.”
“Hoity-toity! What nonsense is this about a haunted room? We’ve noghosts at Wyther Grange. Have we, Caroline? We don’t consider themhygienic.”
“You have something _dreadful_ in that room--it rustled and moaned andcried all night long right in the wall behind my bed. I won’t stay--Iwon’t--.”
Emily’s tears came in spite of her efforts to repress them. She was sounstrung nervously that she couldn’t help crying. It lacked but littleof hysterics with her already.
Aunt Nancy looked at Caroline and Caroline looked back at Aunt Nancy.
“We should have told her, Caroline. It’s all our fault. I cleanforgot--it’s so long since any one slept in the Pink Room. No wondershe was frightened. Emily, you poor child, it was a shame. It wouldserve me right to have my head on a charger, you vindictive scrap. Weshould have told you.”
“Told me--what?”
“About the swallows in the chimney. That was what you heard. The bigcentral chimney goes right up through the walls behind your bed. It isnever used now since the fireplaces were built in. The swallows nestthere--hundreds of them. They do make an uncanny noise--fluttering andquarrelling as they do.”
Emily felt foolish and ashamed--much more ashamed than she needed tofeel, for her experience had really been a very trying one, and olderfolks than she had been woefully frightened o’ nights in the PinkRoom at Wyther Grange. Nancy Priest _had_ put people into that roomsometimes expressly to scare them. But to do her justice she really hadforgotten in Emily’s case and was sorry.
Emily said no more about going home; Caroline and Aunt Nancy were bothvery kind to her that day; she had a good nap in the afternoon; andwhen the second night came she went straight to the Pink Room and sleptsoundly the night through. The rustles and cries were as distinct asever but swallows and spectres were two entirely different things.
“After all, I think I’ll like Wyther Grange,” said Emily.



CHAPTER XXIV
A DIFFERENT KIND OF HAPPINESS

                                         “JULY 20th.
“DEAR FATHER:
“I have been a fortnight at Wyther Grange and I have not written to youonce. But I thought of you every day. I had to write to Aunt Laura andIlse and Teddy and Cousin Jimmy and Perry and between times I am havingsuch fun. The first night I was here I did not think I was going to behappy. But I am--only it’s a different kind from New Moon happiness.
“Aunt Nancy and Caroline are very good to me and let me do exactly asI like. This is very agreeable. They are very sarcastic to each other.But I think they are a good bit like Ilse and me--they fight quitefrequently but love each other very hard between times. I am sureCaroline isn’t a witch but I would like to know what she thinks ofwhen she is all alone by herself. Aunt Nancy is not pretty any longerbut she is very _aristocratic looking_. She doesn’t walk much becauseof her roomatism, so she sits mostly in her back parlor and reads andknits lace or plays cards with Caroline. I talk to her a great dealbecause she says it amuses her and I have told her a great many thingsbut I have never told her that I write poetry. If I did I know shewould make me recite it to her and I feel she is not the right personto recite your poetry to. And I do not talk about you or Mother toher, though she tries to make me. I told her all about Lofty John andhis bush and going to Father Cassidy. She chuckled over that and saidshe always liked to talk to the Catholic Priests because they were theonly men in the world a woman could talk to for more than ten minuteswithout other women saying she was throwing herself at their heads.
“Aunt Nancy says a great many things like that. She and Caroline talka great deal to each other about things that happened in the Priestand Murray families. I like to sit and listen. They don’t stop just asthings are getting interesting the way Aunt Elizabeth and Aunt Laurado. A good many things I don’t understand but I will remember them andwill find out about them sometime. I have written descriptions of AuntNancy and Caroline in my Jimmy-book. I keep the book hid behind thewardrobe in my room because I found Caroline rummidging in my trunkone day. I must not call Aunt Nancy Great-Aunt. She says it makes herfeel like Methoosaleh. She tells me all about the men who were in lovewith her. It seems to me they all behaved pretty much the same. I don’tthink that was exciting but she says it was. She tells me about allthe parties and dances they used to have here long ago. Wyther Grangeis bigger than New Moon and the furniture is much handsomer but it isharder to feel acquainted with it.
“There are many interesting things in this house. I love to look atthem. There is a Jakobite glass on a stand in the parlor. It was aglass _an old ansester_ of the Priests had long ago in Scotland andit has a thistle and a rose on it and they used it to drink PrinceCharlie’s health with and for _no other purpose_. It is a very_valewable airloom_ and Aunt Nancy prizes it highly. And she has apickled snake in a big glass jar in the china cabinet. It is hideousbut fascinating. I shiver when I see it but yet I go to look at itevery day. Something seems to drag me to it. Aunt Nancy has a bureauin her room with _glass knobs_ and a vase shaped like a green fishsitting up on end and a Chinese draggon with a curly tail, and a caseof sweet little stuffed humming birds and a sand-glass for boiling eggsby and a framed wreath made out of the hair of all the dead Priestsand lots of old dagerrotipes. But the thing I like the best of all isa great silvery shining ball hanging from the lamp in the parlour. Itreflects everything like a little fairy world. Aunt Nancy calls it agazing-ball, and says that when she is dead I am to have it. I wishshe hadn’t said that because I want the ball so much that I can’t helpwondering when she will die and that makes me feel wicked. I am tohave the chessy-cat door knocker and her gold earrings, too. These areMurray airlooms. Aunt Nancy says the Priest airlooms must go to thePriests. I will like the chessy-cat but I don’t want the earrings. I’drather not have people notice my ears.
“I have to sleep alone. I feel frightened but I think if I could getover being frightened I’d like it. I don’t mind the swallows now. It’sjust being alone so far away from any one. But it is lovely to be ableto stretch out your legs just as you like and not have anybody scoldyou for skwirming. And when I wake up in the night and think of asplendid line of poetry (because the things that you think of like thatalways seem the best) I can get right out of bed and write it rightdown in my Jimmy-book. I couldn’t do that at home and then by morningI’d likely forget it. I thought of such a nice line last night. “Lilieslifted pearly chaluses (a chalus is a kind of cup only more poetical)where bees were drowned in sweetness” and I felt happy because I wassure they were two better lines than any I had composed yet.
“I am allowed to go into the kitchen and help Caroline cook. Carolineis a good cook but sometimes she makes a mistake and this vexes AuntNancy because she likes nice things to eat. The other day Carolinemade the barley soup far too thick and when Aunt Nancy looked at herplate she said “Lord, is this a dinner or a poltis?” Caroline said“It is good enough for a Priest and what is good enough for a Priestis good enough for a Murray,” and Aunt Nancy said “Woman, the Priestseat of the crumbs that fall from the Murrays’ tables,” and Carolinewas so mad she cried. And Aunt Nancy said to me “Emily, never marry aPriest”--just like Old Kelly, when I have no notion of marrying one ofthem. I don’t like any of them I’ve seen very much but they seem to mea good deal like other people. Jim is the best of them but impident.
“I like the Wyther Grange breakfasts better than the New Moonbreakfasts. We have toast and bacon and marmalade--nicer than porridge.
“Sunday is more amusing here than at New Moon but not so holy. Nicefor a change. Aunt Nancy can’t go to church or knit lace so she andCaroline play cards all day but she says I must never do it--thatshe is just a bad example. I love to look at Aunt Nancy’s big parlorBible because there are so many interesting things in it--pieces ofdresses and hair and poetry and old tintipes and accounts of deathsand weddings. I found a piece about my own birth and it gave me a queerfeeling.
“In the afternoon some of the Priests come to see Aunt Nancy and stayto supper. Leslie Priest always comes. He is Aunt Nancy’s faveriteneffew, so Jim says. I think that is because he pays her compliments.But I saw him wink at Isaac Priest once when he paid her one. I don’tlike him. He treats me as if I was a meer child. Aunt Nancy saysterrible things to them all but they just laugh. When they go away AuntNancy makes fun of them to Caroline. Caroline doesn’t like it, becauseshe is a Priest and so she and Aunt Nancy always quarrel Sunday eveningand don’t speak again till Monday morning.
“I can read all the books in Aunt Nancy’s bookcase except the row onthe top shelf. I wonder why I can’t read them. Aunt Nancy said theywere French novels but I just peeped into one and it was English. Iwonder if Aunt Nancy tells lies.
“The place I love best is down at bay shore. Some parts of the shoreare very steep and there are such nice, woodsy, _unexpected_ placesall along it. I wander there and compose poetry. I miss Ilse and Teddyand Perry and Saucy Sal a great deal. I had a letter from Ilse today.She wrote me that they couldn’t do anything more about the MidsummerNight’s Dream till I got back. It is nice to feel so necessary.
“Aunt Nancy doesn’t like Aunt Elizabeth. She called her a “tyrant” oneday and then she said “Jimmy Murray was a very clever boy. ElizabethMurray killed his intellect in her temper--and nothing was done to her.If she had killed his body she would have been a murderess. The otherwas worse, if you ask me.” I do not like Aunt Elizabeth at times myselfbut I felt, dear Father, that I must stand up for _my family_ and Isaid “I do not want to hear such things said of my Aunt Elizabeth.”
“And I just gave Aunt Nancy a _look_. She said “Well, Saucebox, mybrother Archibald will never be dead as long as you’re alive. If youdon’t want to hear things don’t hang around when Caroline and I aretalking. I notice there are plenty of things you like to hear.”
“This was sarcasm, dear Father, but still I feel Aunt Nancy likes mebut perhaps she will not like me very long. Jim Priest says she isfikkle and never liked anyone, even her husband, very long. But aftershe has been sarcastic to me she always tells Caroline to give me apiece of pie so I don’t mind the sarcasm. She lets me have real tea,too. I like it. At New Moon Aunt Elizabeth won’t give me anything butcambric tea because it is best for my health. Aunt Nancy says the wayto be healthy is to eat just what you want and never think about yourstomach. But then she was never threttened with consumption. She says Ineedn’t be a bit frightened of dying of consumption because I have toomuch ginger in me. That is a comforting thought. The only time I don’tlike Aunt Nancy is when she begins talking about the different parts ofme and the effect they will have on the men. It makes me feel so silly.
“I will write you oftener after this, dear Father. I feel I have beenneglecting you.
“P. S. I am afraid there are some mistakes in spelling in this letter.I forgot to bring my dictionary with me.
                                           “JULY 22.
“Oh, dear Father, I am in a dreadful scrape. I don’t know what I am todo. Oh, Father, I have broken Aunt Nancy’s Jakobite glass. It seems tome like a dreadful dream.
“I went into the parlor today to look at the pickled snake and just asI was turning away my sleeve caught the Jakobite glass and over it wenton the harth and _shivered into fragments_. At first I rushed out andleft them there but afterwards I went back and carefully gathered themup and hid them in a box behind the sofa. Aunt Nancy never goes intothe parlor now and Caroline not very often and perhaps they may notmiss the glass until I go home. But it _haunts_ me. I keep thinking ofit all the time and I cannot enjoy anything. I know Aunt Nancy will befurious and never forgive me if she finds out. I could not sleep allnight for worrying about it. Jim Priest came down to play with me todaybut he said there was no fun in me and went home. The Priests mostlysay what they think. Of course there was no fun in me. How could therebe? I wonder if it would do any good to pray about it. I don’t feel asif it would be right to pray because I am deceiving Aunt Nancy.
                                           “JULY 24.
“Dear Father, this is a very strange world. Nothing ever turns outjust like what you expect. Last night I couldn’t sleep again. I wasso worried. I thought I was a coward, and doing an underhanded thingand not living up to my tradishuns. At last it got so bad I couldn’tstand it. I can bear it when other people have a bad opinion of me butit hurts too much when I have a bad opinion of myself. So I got out ofbed and went right back through all those halls to the back parlor.Aunt Nancy was still there all alone playing Solitare. She said whaton earth was I out of bed for at such an hour. I just said, short andquick to get the worst over, “I broke your Jakobite glass yesterdayand hid the pieces behind the sofa.” Then I waited for the _storm toburst_. Aunt Nancy said “What a blessing. I’ve often wanted to smash itbut never had the courage. All the Priest clan are waiting for me todie to get that glass and quarrel over it and I’m tickled to think noneof them can have it now and yet can’t pick a fuss with me over smashingit. Get off to bed and get your beauty sleep.” I said “And aren’t youmad at all, Aunt Nancy?” “If it had been a Murray airloom I’d havetorn up the turf” Aunt Nancy said. “But I don’t care a hoot about thePriest things.”
“So I went back to bed, dear Father, and felt very releeved, but not soheroyik.
“I had a letter from Ilse today. She says Saucy Sal has had kittens atlast. I feel that I ought to be home to see about them. Likely AuntElizabeth will have them all drowned before I get back. I had a letterfrom Teddy too, not much of a letter but all filled with dear littlepictures of Ilse and Perry and the Tansy Patch and Lofty John’s bush.They made me feel homesick.
                                           “JULY 28.
“Oh, Father dear, I have found out all about the mistery of Ilse’smother. It is so terrible I can’t write it down even to you. I cannotbelieve it but Aunt Nancy says it is true. I did not think there couldbe such terrible things in the world. No, I can’t believe it and Iwon’t believe it no matter who says it is true. I _know_ Ilse’s mother_couldn’t_ have done anything like that. There must have been a fearfulmistake somewhere. I am so unhappy and feel as if I could never behappy any more. Last night I wept on my pillow, like the heroins inAunt Nancy’s books do.”



CHAPTER XXV
“SHE COULDN’T HAVE DONE IT”

Great-Aunt Nancy and Caroline Priest were wont to colour their greydays with the remembered crimsons of old, long-past delights andmerry-makings, but they went further than this and talked over anynumber of old family histories before Emily with a total disregard ofher youth. Loves, births, deaths, scandals, tragedies--anything thatcame into their old heads. Nor did they spare details. Aunt Nancyrevelled in details. She forgot nothing, and sins and weaknesses thatdeath had covered and time shown mercy to were ruthlessly dragged outand dissected by this ghoulish old lady.
Emily was not quite certain whether she really liked it or not. It_was_ fascinating--it fed some dramatic hunger in her--but it made herfeel unhappy somehow, as if something very ugly were concealed in thedarkness of the pit they opened before her innocent eyes. As Aunt Laurahad said, her youth protected her to some extent, but it could not saveher from a dreadful understanding of the pitiful story of Ilse’s motheron the afternoon when it seemed good to Aunt Nancy to resurrect thattale of anguish and shame.
Emily was curled up on the sofa in the back parlour, reading _TheScottish Chiefs_ because it was a breathlessly hot July afternoon--toohot to haunt the bay shore. Emily was feeling very happy. The WindWoman was ruffling over the big maple grove behind the Grange, turningthe leaves until every tree seemed to be covered with strange, pale,silvery blossoms; fragrances drifted in from the garden; the world waslovely; she had had a letter from Aunt Laura saying that one of SaucySal’s kittens had been saved for her. Emily had felt when Mike II diedthat she would never want another cat. But now she found she did.Everything suited her very well; she was so happy that she should havesacrificed her dearest possession to the jealous gods if she had knownanything about the old pagan belief.
Aunt Nancy was tired of playing solitaire. She pushed the cards awayand took up her knitting.
“Emily,” she said, “has your Aunt Laura any notion of marrying Dr.Burnley?”
Emily, recalled thus abruptly from the field of Bannockburn, lookedbored. Blair Water gossip had often asked or hinted this question; andnow it met her in Priest Pond.
“No, I’m sure she hasn’t,” she said. “Why, Aunt Nancy, Dr. Burnley_hates_ women.”
Aunt Nancy chuckled.
“Thought perhaps he’d got over that. It’s eleven years now since hiswife ran away. Few men hold to one idea for anything like eleven years.But Allan Burnley always was stubborn in anything--love or hate. Hestill loves his wife--and that is why he hates her memory and all otherwomen.”
“I never heard the rights of that story,” said Caroline. “Who was hiswife?”
“Beatrice Mitchell--one of the Shrewsbury Mitchells. She was onlyeighteen when Allan married her. He was thirty-five. Emily, never yoube fool enough to marry a man much older than yourself.”
Emily said nothing. _The Scottish Chiefs_ was forgotten. Herfinger-tips were growing cold as they always did in excitement, hereyes turning black. She felt that she was on the verge of solving themystery that had so long worried and puzzled her. She was desperatelyafraid that Aunt Nancy would branch off to something else.
“I’ve heard she was a great beauty,” said Caroline.
Aunt Nancy sniffed.
“Depends on your taste in style. Oh, she was pretty--one of yourgolden-haired dolls. She had a little birthmark over her lefteyebrow--just like a tiny red heart--I never could see anything butthat mark when I looked at her. But her flatterers told her it was abeauty spot--‘the Ace of Hearts’ they called her. Allan was mad abouther. She had been a flirt before her marriage. But I _will_ say--forjustice among women is a rare thing, Caroline--_you_, for instance, arean unjust old hag--that she didn’t flirt after marrying--openly, atleast. She was a sly puss--always laughing and singing and dancing--nowife for Allan Burnley if you ask me. And he could have had LauraMurray. But between a fool and a sensible woman did a man everhesitate? The fool wins every time, Caroline. That’s why _you_ nevergot a husband. You were too sensible. I got mine by pretending to be afool. Emily, you remember that. You have brains--hide them. Your ankleswill do more for you than your brains ever will.”
“Never mind Emily’s ankles,” said Caroline, keen on a scandal hunt. “Goon about the Burnleys.”
“Well, there was a cousin of hers--Leo Mitchell from Shrewsbury. Youremember the Mitchells, don’t you, Caroline? This Leo was a handsomefellow--a sea-captain. He had been in love with Beatrice, so gossipran. Some said Beatrice wanted him but that her people made her marryAllan Burnley because he was the better match. Who knows? Gossip liesnine times and tells a half truth the tenth. She pretended to be inlove with Allan anyhow, and he believed it. When Leo came home from avoyage and found Beatrice married he took it coolly enough. But he wasalways over at Blair Water. Beatrice had plenty of excuses. Leo was hercousin--they had been brought up together--they were like brother andsister--she was so lonesome in Blair Water after living in a town--hehad no home except with a brother. Allan took it all down--he was soinfatuated with her she could have made him believe anything. She andLeo were always together there when Allan was away seeing his patients.Then came the night Leo’s vessel--_The Lady of Winds_--was to sail fromBlair Harbour for South America. He went--and my lady Beatrice wentwith him.”
A queer little strangled sound came from Emily’s corner. If Aunt Nancyor Caroline had looked at her they would have seen that the child waswhite as the dead, with wide, horror-filled eyes. But they did notlook. They knitted and gossiped on, enjoying themselves hugely.
“How did the doctor take it?” asked Caroline.
“Take it--take it--nobody knows. Everybody knows what kind of a manhe’s been ever since, though. He came home that night at dusk. The babywas asleep in its crib and the servant girl was watching it. She toldAllan that Mrs. Burnley had gone to the harbour with her cousin for agood-bye walk and would be back at ten. Allan waited for her easilyenough--he never doubted her--but she didn’t come back. She had neverintended to come back. In the morning _The Lady of Winds_ was gone--hadsailed out of the harbour at dark the night before. Beatrice had goneon board with him--that was all anybody knew. Allan Burnley _said_nothing, beyond forbidding her name ever to be mentioned in his hearingagain. But _The Lady of Winds_ was lost with all on board off Hatterasand that was the end of that elopement, and the end of Beatrice withher beauty and her laughter and her Ace of Hearts.”
“But not the end of the shame and wretchedness she brought to herhome,” said Caroline shrewishly. “I’d tar and feather such a woman.”
“Nonsense--if a man can’t look after his wife--if he blinds his owneyes-- Mercy on us, child, what is the matter?”
For Emily was standing up, holding out her hands as if pushing someloathly thing from her.
“I don’t believe it,” she cried, in a high, unnatural voice. “I don’tbelieve Ilse’s mother did _that_. She didn’t--she couldn’t have--notIlse’s _mother_.”
“Catch her, Caroline!” cried Aunt Nancy.
But Emily, though the back parlour had whirled about her for a second,had recovered herself.
“Don’t touch me!” she cried passionately. “Don’t touch me!You--you--you _liked_ hearing that story!”
She rushed out of the room. Aunt Nancy looked ashamed for a moment. Forthe first time it occurred to her that her scandal-loving old tonguehad done a black thing. Then she shrugged her shoulders.
“She can’t go through life in cotton wool. Might as well learn spadesare spades now as ever. I would have thought she’d have heard it alllong ago if Blair Water gossip is what it used to be. If she goes homeand tells this I’ll have the indignant virgins of New Moon coming downon me in holy horror as a corrupter of youth. Caroline, don’t you askme to tell you any more family horrors before my niece, you scandalousold woman. At your age! I’m surprised at you!”
Aunt Nancy and Caroline returned to their knitting and their spicyreminiscences, and upstairs in the Pink Room Emily lay face downwardson her bed and cried for hours. It was so horrible--Ilse’s motherhad run away and left her little baby. To Emily that was the awfulthing--the strange, cruel, heartless thing that Ilse’s mother had done.She could not bring herself to believe it--there was some mistakesomewhere--there _was_.
“Perhaps she was kidnapped,” said Emily, trying desperately to explainit. “She just went on board to look around--and he weighed anchor andcarried her off. She _couldn’t_ have gone away of her own accord andleft her dear little baby.”
The story haunted Emily in good earnest. She could think of nothingelse for days. It took possession of her and worried and gnawed at herwith an almost physical pain. She dreaded going back to New Moon andmeeting Ilse with this consciousness of a dark secret which she musthide from her. Ilse knew nothing. She had asked Ilse once where hermother was buried and Ilse had said, “Oh, I don’t know. At Shrewsbury,I guess--that’s where all the Mitchells are buried.”
Emily wrung her slim hands together. She was as sensitive to uglinessand pain as she was to beauty and pleasure, and this thing was bothhideous and agonizing. Yet she could not keep from thinking about it,day and night. Life at Wyther Grange suddenly went stale. Aunt Nancyand Caroline all at once gave up talking family history, even harmlesshistory, before her. And as it was painful repression for them, theydid not encourage her hanging round. Emily began to feel that theywere glad when she was out of hearing, so she kept away and spentmost of her days wandering on the bay shore. She could not composeany poetry--she could not write in her Jimmy-book--she could not evenwrite to her father. Something seemed to hang between her and her olddelights. There was a drop of poison in every cup. Even the filmyshadows on the great bay, the charm of its fir-hung cliffs and itslittle purple islets that looked like outposts of fairyland, could notbring to her the old “fine, careless rapture.” She was afraid she couldnever be happy again--so intense had been her reaction to her firstrevelation of the world’s sin and sorrow. And under it all, persistedthe same incredulity--Ilse’s mother _couldn’t_ have done it--and thesame helpless longing to prove she couldn’t have done it. But how couldit be proved? It couldn’t. She had solved one “mystery” but she hadstumbled into a darker one--the reason why Beatrice Burnley had nevercome back on that summer twilight of long ago. For, all the evidence offacts to the contrary notwithstanding, Emily persisted in her secretbelief that whatever the reason _was_, it was _not_ that she had goneaway in _The Lady of Winds_ when that doomed ship sailed out into thestarlit wonder of the gulf beyond Blair Harbour.



CHAPTER XXVI
ON THE BAY SHORE

“I wonder,” thought Emily, “how much longer I have to live.”
She had prowled that evening further down the bay shore than she hadever gone before. It was a warm, windy evening; the air was resinousand sweet; the bay a misty turquoise. That part of the shore whereonshe found herself seemed as lonely and virgin as if no human foot hadever trodden it, save for a tiny, tricksy path, slender as red threadand bordered by great, green, velvety sheets of moss, that wound inand out of the big firs and scrub spruces. The banks grew steeper androckier as she went on and finally the little path vanished altogetherin a plot of bracken. Emily was just turning to go back when she caughtsight of a magnificent spray of farewell summer, growing far out on theedge of the bank. She must get it--she had never seen farewell-summersof so dark and rich a purple. She stepped out to reach them--thetreacherous mossy soil gave way under her feet and slid down the steepslope. Emily made a frantic attempt to scramble back but the harder shetried, the faster went the landslide, carrying her with it. In a momentit would pass the slope and go over the brink of the rocks, straightto the boulder-strewn shore thirty feet below. Emily had one dreadfulmoment of terror and despair; and then she found that the clump ofmossy earth which had broken away had held on a narrow ledge of rock,half hanging over it; and she was lying on the clump. It seemed to herthat the slightest movement on her part would send it over, straight tothe cruel boulders underneath.
She lay very still, trying to think--trying not to be afraid. She wasfar, far away from any house--nobody could hear her if she screamed.And she did not even dare to scream lest the motion of her bodydislodge the fragment on which she lay. How long could she lie theremotionless? Night was coming on. Aunt Nancy would grow anxious whenthe dark fell and would send Caroline to look for her. But Carolinewould never find her here. Nobody would ever think of looking here forher, so far away from the Grange, in the spruce barrens of the LowerBay. To lie there alone all night--to fancy the earth was slippingover--waiting for help that would never come--Emily could hardlyrestrain a shudder that might have been ruinous.
She had faced death once before, or thought she had, on the night whenLofty John had told her she had eaten a poisoned apple--but this waseven harder. To die here, all alone, far away from home! They mightnever know what had become of her--never find her. The crows or thegulls would pick her eyes out. She dramatized the thing so vividly thatshe almost screamed with the horror of it. She would just disappearfrom the world as Ilse’s mother had disappeared.
_What had become of Ilse’s mother?_ Even in her own desperate plightEmily asked herself that question. And she would never see dear NewMoon again and Teddy and the dairy and the Tansy Patch and LoftyJohn’s bush and the mossy old sundial and her precious little heap ofmanuscripts on the sofa shelf in the garret.
“I must be very brave and patient,” she thought. “My only chance is tolie still. And I can pray in my mind--I’m sure God can hear thoughts aswell as words. It is nice to think He can hear me if nobody else can.O God--Father’s God--please work a miracle and save my life, because Idon’t think I’m fit to die yet. Excuse my not being on my knees--Youcan see I can’t move. And if I die please don’t let Aunt Elizabeth findmy letter-bills ever. Please let Aunt Laura find them. And please don’tlet Caroline move out the wardrobe when she house-cleans because thenshe would find my Jimmy-book and read what I wrote about her. Pleaseforgive all my sins, especially not being grateful enough and cutting abang, and please don’t let Father be very far away. Amen.”
Then, characteristically she thought of a postscript. “And oh, _please_let somebody find out that Ilse’s mother didn’t do _that_.”
She lay very still. The light on the water began to turn warm gold androse. A great pine on a bluff in front of her overflowed in a crest ofdark boughs against the amber splendour behind it--a part of the beautyof the beautiful world that was slipping away from her. The chill ofthe evening gulf breeze began to creep over her. Once a bit of earthbroke off at her side and went down--Emily heard the thud of the littlepebbles in it on the boulders below. The portion upon which one of herlegs lay was quite loose and pendent also. She knew it might break off,too, at any moment. It would be very dreadful to be there when it gotdark. She could see the big spray of farewell-summer that had lured herto her doom, waving unplucked above her, wonderfully purple and lovely.
Then, beside it, she saw a man’s face looking down at her!
She heard him say, “My God!” softly to himself. She saw that he wasslight and that one shoulder was a trifle higher than the other. Thismust be Dean Priest--Jarback Priest. Emily dared not call to him. Shelay still and her great, grey-purple eyes said, “Save me.”
“How can I help you?” said Dean Priest hoarsely, as if to himself. “Icannot reach you--and it looks as if the slightest touch or jar wouldsend that broken earth over the brink. I must go for a rope--and toleave you here alone--like this. Can you wait, child?”
“Yes,” breathed Emily. She smiled at him to encourage him--the littlesoft smile that began at the corners of her mouth and spread over herface. Dean Priest never forgot that smile--and the steadfast child-eyeslooking out through it from the little face that seemed so perilouslynear the brink.
“I’ll be as quick as I can,” he said. “I can’t go very fast--I’m a bitlame, you see. But don’t be frightened--I’ll save you. I’ll leave mydog to keep you company. Here, Tweed.”
He whistled--a great, tawny-gold dog came in sight.
“Sit right there, Tweed, till I come back. Don’t stir a paw--don’t waga tail--talk to her only with your eyes.”
Tweed sat down obediently and Dean Priest disappeared.
Emily lay there and dramatized the whole incident for her Jimmy-book.She was a little frightened still, but not too frightened to seeherself writing it all out the next day. It would be quite a thrillingbit.
She liked to know the big dog was there. She was not so learned inlore of dogs as in lore of cats. But he looked very human and trustywatching her with great kindly eyes. A grey kitten was an adorablething--but a grey kitten would not have sat there and encouraged her.“I believe,” thought Emily, “that a dog is better than a cat whenyou’re in trouble.”
It was half an hour before Dean Priest returned.
“Thank God you haven’t gone over,” he muttered. “I hadn’t to go as faras I feared--I found a rope in an empty boat up-shore and took it. Andnow--if I drop the rope down to you, are you strong enough to hold itwhile the earth goes and then hang on while I pull you up?”
“I’ll try,” said Emily.
Dean Priest knotted a loop at the end and slid it down to her. Then hewound the rope around the trunk of a heavy fir.
“Now,” he said.
Emily said inwardly, “Dear God, _please_--” and caught the swayingloop. The next moment the full weight of her body swung from it, for ather first movement the broken soil beneath her slipped down--slippedover. Dean Priest sickened and shivered. Could she cling to the ropewhile he drew her up?
Then he saw she had got a little knee-hold on the narrow shelf.Carefully he drew on the rope. Emily, full of pluck, helped him bydigging her toes into the crumbling bank. In a moment she was withinhis reach. He grasped her arms and pulled her up beside him intosafety. As he lifted her past the farewell-summer Emily reached out herhand and broke off the spray.
“I’ve got it, anyhow,” she said jubilantly. Then she remembered hermanners. “I’m much obliged to you. You saved my life. And--and--I thinkI’ll sit down a moment. My legs feel funny and trembly.”
Emily sat down, all at once more shaky than she had been through allthe danger. Dean Priest leaned against the gnarled old fir. He seemed“trembly” too. He wiped his forehead with his handkerchief. Emilylooked curiously at him. She had learned a good deal about him fromAunt Nancy’s casual remarks--not always good-natured remarks, forAunt Nancy did not wholly like him, it seemed. She always called him“Jarback” rather contemptuously, while Caroline scrupulously called himDean. Emily knew he had been to college, that he was thirty-six yearsold--which to Emily seemed a venerable age--and well-off; that he had amalformed shoulder and limped slightly; that he cared for nothing savebooks nor ever had; that he lived with an older brother and travelleda great deal; and that the whole Priest clan stood somewhat in awe ofhis ironic tongue. Aunt Nancy had called him a “cynic.” Emily did notknow what a cynic was but it sounded interesting. She looked him overcarefully and saw that he had delicate, pale features and tawny-brownhair. His lips were thin and sensitive, with a whimsical curve. Sheliked his mouth. Had she been older she would have known why--becauseit connoted strength and tenderness and humour.
In spite of his twisted shoulder there was about him a certain aloofdignity of presence which was characteristic of many of the Priests andwhich was often mistaken for pride. The green Priest eyes, that werepeering and uncanny in Caroline’s face and impudent in Jim Priest’s,were remarkably dreamy and attractive in his.
“Well, do you think me handsome?” he said, sitting down on anotherstone and smiling at her. His voice was beautiful--musical andcaressing.
Emily blushed. She knew staring was not etiquette, and she did notthink him at all handsome, so she was very thankful that he did notpress his question, but asked another.
“Do you know who your knightly rescuer is?”
“I think you must be Jar--Mr. Dean Priest.” Emily flushed again withvexation. She had come so near to making another terrible hole in hermanners.
“Yes, Jarback Priest. You needn’t mind the nickname. I’ve heardit often enough. It’s a Priest idea of humour.” He laughed ratherunpleasantly. “The reason for it is obvious enough, isn’t it? I nevergot anything else at school. How came you to slide over that cliff?”
“I wanted this,” said Emily, waving her farewell-summer.
“And you have it! Do you always get what you go after, even with deathslipping a thin wedge between? I think you’re born lucky. I see thesigns. If that big aster lured you into danger it saved you as well,for it was through stepping over to investigate it that I saw you. Itssize and colour caught my eye. Otherwise I should have gone on andyou--what would have become of you? Whom do you belong to that you arelet risk your life on these dangerous banks? What is your name--if youhave a name! I begin to doubt you--I see you have pointed ears. Have Ibeen tricked into meddling with fairies, and will I discover presentlythat twenty years have passed and that I am an old man long sincelost to the living world with nothing but the skeleton of my dog forcompany?”
“I am Emily Byrd Starr of New Moon,” said Emily, rather coldly. She wasbeginning to be sensitive about her ears. Father Cassidy had remarkedon them--and now Jarback Priest. Was there really something uncannyabout them?
And yet there was a flavour about the said Jarback that sheliked--liked decidedly. Emily never was long in doubt about any oneshe met. In a few minutes she always knew whether she liked, disliked,or was indifferent to them. She had a queer feeling that she had knownJarback Priest for years--perhaps because it had seemed so long whenshe was lying on that crumbling earth waiting for him to return. Hewas not handsome but she liked that lean, clever face of his with itsmagnetic green eyes.
“So you’re the young lady visitor at the Grange!” said Dean Priest,in some astonishment. “Then my dear Aunt Nancy should look after youbetter--my _very_ dear Aunt Nancy.”
“You don’t like Aunt Nancy, I see,” said Emily coolly.
“What is the use of liking a lady who won’t like me? You have probablydiscovered by this time that my Lady Aunt detests me.”
“Oh, I don’t think it’s as bad as that,” said Emily. “She must havesome good opinions about you--she says you’re the only Priest who willever go to heaven.”
“She doesn’t mean that as a compliment, whatever you in your innocencebelieve it to be. And you are Douglas Starr’s daughter? I knew yourfather. We were boys together at Queen’s Academy--we drifted apartafter we left it--he went into journalism, I to McGill. But he was theonly friend I had at school--the only boy who would bother himselfabout Jarback Priest, who was lame and hunchbacked and couldn’t playfootball or hockey. Emily Byrd Starr--Starr should be your first name.You look like a star--you have a radiant sort of personality shiningthrough you--your proper habitat should be the evening sky just aftersunset--or the morning sky just before sunrise. Yes. You’d be more athome in the morning sky. I think I shall call you Star.”
“Do you mean that you think me pretty?” asked Emily directly.
“Why, it hadn’t occurred to me to wonder whether you were pretty ornot. Do you think a star should be pretty?”
Emily reflected.
“No,” she said finally, “the word doesn’t suit a star.”
“I perceive you are an artist in words. Of course it doesn’t. Stars areprismatic--palpitating--elusive. It is not often we find one made fleshand blood. I think I’ll wait for you.”
“Oh, I’m ready to go now,” said Emily, standing up.
“H’m. That wasn’t what I meant. Never mind. Come along, Star--if youdon’t mind walking a bit slowly. I’ll take you back from the wildernessat least--I don’t know that I’ll venture to Wyther Grange to-night.I don’t want Aunt Nancy to take the edge off _you_. And so you don’tthink me handsome?”
“I didn’t say so,” cried Emily.
“Not in words. But I can read your thoughts, Star--it won’t ever doto think anything you don’t want me to know. The gods gave me thatgift--when they kept back everything else I wanted. You don’t think mehandsome but you think me nice. Do you think you are pretty yourself?”
“A little--since Aunt Nancy lets me wear my bang,” said Emily frankly.
Jarback Priest made a grimace.
“Don’t call it by such a name. It’s a worse name even than bustle.Bangs and bustles--they hurt me. I like that black wave breaking onyour white brows--but don’t call it a bang--ever again.”
“It _is_ a very ugly word. I never use it in my poetry, of course.”
Whereby Dean Priest discovered that Emily wrote poetry. He alsodiscovered pretty nearly everything else about her in that charmingwalk back to Priest Pond in the fir-scented dusk, with Tweed walkingbetween them, his nose touching his master’s hand softly every now andthen, while the robins in the trees above them whistled blithely in theafterlight.
With nine out of ten people Emily was secretive and reserved, but DeanPriest was sealed of her tribe and she divined it instantly. He had aright to the inner sanctuary and she yielded it unquestioningly. Shetalked to him freely.
Besides, she felt _alive_ again--she felt the wonderful thrill ofliving again, after that dreadful space when she had seemed tohang between life and death. She felt, as she wrote to her fatherafterwards, “as if a little bird was singing in my heart.” And oh, howgood the green sod felt under her feet!
She told him all about herself and her doings and beings. Only onething she did not tell him--her worry over Ilse’s mother. _That_ shecould not speak of to any one. Aunt Nancy need not have been frightenedthat she would carry tales to New Moon.
“I wrote a whole poem yesterday when it rained and I couldn’t get out,”she said. “It began,
    I sit by the western window    That looks on Malvern Bay--”
“Am I not to hear the whole of it?” asked Dean, who knew perfectly wellthat Emily was hoping that he would ask it.
Emily delightedly repeated the whole poem. When she came to the twolines she liked best in it,
    Perhaps in those wooded islands      That gem the proud bay’s breast--
she looked up sidewise at him to see if he admired them. But he waswalking with eyes cast down and an absent expression on his face. Shefelt a little disappointed.
“H’m,” he said when she had finished. “You’re twelve, didn’t you say?When you’re ten years older I shouldn’t wonder--but let’s not think ofit.”
“Father Cassidy told me to keep on,” cried Emily.
“There was no need of it. You _would_ keep on anyhow--you have the itchfor writing born in you. It’s quite incurable. What are you going to dowith it?”
“I think I shall be either a great poetess or a distinguishednovelist,” said Emily reflectively.
“Having only to choose,” remarked Dean dryly. “Better be a novelist--Ihear it pays better.”
“What worries me about writing novels,” confided Emily, “is the lovetalk in them. I’m sure I’ll never be able to write it. I’ve tried,” sheconcluded candidly, “and I can’t think of _anything_ to say.”
“Don’t worry about that. _I’ll_ teach you some day,” said Dean.
“Will you--will you really?” Emily was very eager. “I’ll be so obligedif you will. I _think_ I could manage _everything_ else very nicely.”
“It’s a bargain then--don’t forget it. And don’t go looking for anotherteacher, mind. What do you find to do at the Grange besides writingpoetry? Are you never lonesome with only those two old survivals?”
“No. I enjoy my own company,” said Emily gravely.
“You would. Stars are said to dwell apart, anyhow, sufficient untothemselves--ensphered in their own light. Do you really like AuntNancy?”
“Yes, indeed. She is very kind to me. She doesn’t make me wearsunbonnets and she lets me go barefooted in the forenoons. But I haveto wear my buttoned boots in the afternoons, and I hate buttoned boots.”
“Naturally. You should be shod with sandals of moonshine and wear ascarf of sea-mist with a few fireflies caught in it over your hair.Star, you don’t look like your father, but you suggest him in severalways. Do you look like your mother? I never saw her.”
All at once Emily smiled demurely. A real sense of humour was born inher at that moment. Never again was she to feel quite so unmixedlytragic over anything.
“No,” she said, “it’s only my eyelashes and smile that are likeMother’s. But I’ve got Father’s forehead, and Grandma Starr’s hairand eyes, and Great-Uncle George’s nose, and Aunt Nancy’s hands, andCousin Susan’s elbows, and Great-great-Grandmother Murray’s ankles, andGrandfather Murray’s eyebrows.”
Dean Priest laughed.
“A rag-bag--as we all are,” he said. “But your soul is your own, andfire-new, I’ll swear to that.”
“Oh, I’m so glad I like you,” said Emily impulsively. “It would be_hateful_ to think any one I didn’t like had saved my life. I don’tmind _your_ saving it a bit.”
“That’s good. Because you see your life belongs to me henceforth. SinceI saved it it’s mine. Never forget that.”
Emily felt an odd sensation of rebellion. She didn’t fancy the ideaof her life belonging to anybody but herself--not even to anybody sheliked as much as she liked Dean Priest. Dean, watching her, saw it andsmiled his whimsical smile that always seemed to have so much more init than mere smiling.
“That doesn’t quite suit you? Ah, you see one pays a penalty when onereaches out for something beyond the ordinary. One pays for it inbondage of some kind or other. Take your wonderful aster home and keepit as long as you can. It has cost you your freedom.”
He was laughing--he was only joking, of course--yet Emily felt as if acobweb fetter had been flung round her. Yielding to a sudden impulseshe flung the big aster on the ground and set her foot on it.
Dean Priest looked on amusedly. His strange eyes were very kindly as hemet hers.
“You rare thing--you vivid thing--you starry thing! We are going to begood friends--we _are_ good friends. I’m coming up to Wyther Grangeto-morrow to see those descriptions you’ve written of Caroline andmy venerable Aunt in your Jimmy-book. I feel sure they’re delicious.Here’s your path--don’t go roaming again so far from civilization.Good-night, my Star of the Morning.”
He stood at the crossroad and watched her out of sight.
“What a child!” he muttered. “I’ll never forget her eyes as she laythere on the edge of death--the dauntless little soul--and I’ve neverseen a creature who seemed so full of sheer joy in existence. She isDouglas Starr’s child--_he_ never called me Jarback.”
He stooped and picked up the broken aster. Emily’s heel had met itsquarely and it was badly crushed. But he put it away that nightbetween the leaves of an old volume of _Jane Eyre_, where he had markeda verse--
    All glorious rose upon my sight    That child of shower and gleam.



CHAPTER XXVII
THE VOW OF EMILY

In Dean Priest Emily found, for the first time since her father haddied, a companion who could fully sympathize. She was always at herbest with him, with a delightful feeling of being understood. To loveis easy and therefore common--but to _understand_--how rare it is!They roamed wonderlands of fancy together in the magic August daysthat followed upon Emily’s adventure on the bay shore, talked togetherof exquisite, immortal things, and were at home with “nature’s oldfelicities” of which Wordsworth so happily speaks.
Emily showed him all the poetry and “descriptions” in her “Jimmy-book”and he read them gravely, and, exactly as Father had done, made littlecriticisms that did not hurt her because she knew they were just. Asfor Dean Priest, a certain secret well-spring of fancy that had longseemed dry bubbled up in him sparklingly again.
“You make me believe in fairies, whether I will or no,” he told her,“and that means youth. As long as you believe in fairies you can’t growold.”
“But I can’t believe in fairies myself,” protested Emily sorrowfully.“I wish I could.”
“But _you_ are a fairy yourself--or you wouldn’t be able to findfairyland. You can’t buy a ticket there, you know. Either the fairiesthemselves give you your passport at your christening--or they don’t.That is all there is to it.”
“Isn’t ‘Fairyland’ the _loveliest_ word?” said Emily dreamily.
“Because it means everything the human heart desires,” said Dean.
When he talked to her Emily felt as if she were looking into someenchanted mirror where her own dreams and secret hopes were reflectedback to her with added charm. If Dean Priest were a cynic he showed nocynicism to Emily. But in her company he was not a cynic; he had shedhis years and became a boy again with a boy’s untainted visions. Sheloved him for the world he opened to her view.
There was such fun in him, too,--such sly, surprising fun. He told herjokes--he made her laugh. He told her strange old tales of forgottengods who were very beautiful--of court festivals and the bridals ofkings. He seemed to have the history of the whole world at his fingers’ends. He described things to her in unforgettable phrases as theywalked by the bay shore or sat in the overgrown, shadowy old gardenof Wyther Grange. When he spoke of Athens as “the City of the VioletCrown” Emily realized afresh what magic is made when the right wordsare wedded; and she loved to think of Rome as “the City of the SevenHills.” Dean had been in Rome and Athens--and almost everywhere else.
“I didn’t know any one ever talked as you do except in books,” she toldhim.
Dean laughed--with a little note of bitterness that was so oftenpresent in his laughter--though less often with Emily than with otherpeople. It was really his laughter that had won Dean his reputation forcynicism. People so often felt that he was laughing _at_ them insteadof _with_ them.
“I’ve had only books for companions most of my life,” he said. “Is itany wonder I talk like them?”
“I’m sure I’ll like studying history after this,” said Emily; “exceptCanadian History. I’ll never like _it_--it’s so dull. Not just at thefirst, when we belonged to France and there was plenty of fighting, butafter that it’s nothing but politics.”
“The happiest countries, like the happiest women, have no history,”said Dean.
“I hope _I’ll_ have a history,” cried Emily. “I want a _thrilling_career.”
“We all do, foolish one. Do you know what makes history? Pain--andshame--and rebellion--and bloodshed and heartache. Star, ask yourselfhow many hearts ached--and broke--to make those crimson and purplepages in history that you find so enthralling. I told you the story ofLeonidas and his Spartans the other day. They had mothers, sisters andsweethearts. If they could have fought a bloodless battle at the pollswouldn’t it have been better--if not so dramatic.”
“I--can’t--_feel_--that way,” said Emily confusedly. She was not oldenough to think or say, as she would say ten years later, “The heroesof Thermopylæ have been an inspiration to humanity for centuries. Whatsquabble around a ballot-box will ever be that?”
“And, like all female creatures, you form your opinions by yourfeelings. Well, hope for your thrilling career--but remember that ifthere is to be drama in your life _somebody_ must pay the piper in thecoin of suffering. If not you--then some one else.”
“Oh, no, I wouldn’t like _that_.”
“Then be content with fewer thrills. What about your tumble over thebank down there? That came near being a tragedy. What if I hadn’t foundyou?”
“But you _did_ find me,” cried Emily. “I like near escapes--afterthey’re over,” she added. “If everybody had always been happy there’dbe nothing to read about.”
Tweed made a third in their rambles and Emily grew very fond of him,without losing any of her loyalty to the pussy folk.
“I like cats with one part of my mind and dogs with another part,” shesaid.
“I like cats but I never keep one,” Dean said. “They’re tooexacting--they ask too much. Dogs want only love but cats demandworship. They have never got over the Bubastis habit of godship.”
Emily understood this--he had told her all about old Egypt and thegoddess Pasht--but she did not quite agree with him.
“Kittens don’t want to be worshipped,” she said. “They just want to becuddled.”
“By their priestesses--yes. If you had been born on the banks of theNile five thousand years ago, Emily, you would have been a priestess ofPasht--an adorable, slim, brown creature with a fillet of gold aroundyour black hair and bands of silver on those ankles Aunt Nancy admires,with dozens of sacred little godlings frisking around you under thepalms of the temple courts.”
“Oh,” gasped Emily rapturously, “that gave me _the flash_. And,” sheadded wonderingly, “just for a moment it made me _homesick_, too. Why?”
“Why? Because I haven’t a doubt you _were_ just such a priestess ina former incarnation and my words reminded your soul of it. Do youbelieve in the doctrine of the transmigration of souls, Star? But ofcourse not--brought up by the true-blue Calvinists of New Moon.”
“What does it mean?” asked Emily, and when Dean explained it to her shethought it a very delightful belief but was quite sure Aunt Elizabethwould not approve of it.
“So I won’t believe it--yet,” she said gravely.
Then it all came to an end quite suddenly. It had been taken forgranted by all concerned that Emily was to stay at Wyther Grange untilthe end of August. But in mid-August Aunt Nancy said suddenly to herone day,
“Go home, Emily. I’m tired of you. I like you very well--you’re notstupid and you’re passably pretty and you’ve behaved exceedinglywell--tell Elizabeth you do the Murrays credit--but I’m tired of you.Go home.”
Emily’s feelings were mixed. It hurt her to be told Aunt Nancy wastired of her--it would hurt any one. It rankled in her for several daysuntil she thought of a sharp answer she might have made Aunt Nancy andwrote it down in her Jimmy-book. She felt quite as relieved then as ifshe had really said it.
And she was sorry to leave Wyther Grange; she had grown to love theold beautiful house, with its flavour of hidden secrets--a flavourthat was wholly a trick of its architecture, for there had never beenanything in it but the simple tale of births and deaths and marriagesand everyday living that most houses have. She was sorry to leave thebay shore and the quaint garden and the gazing-ball and the chessy-catand the Pink Room bed of freedom; and most of all she was sorry toleave Dean Priest. But on the other hand it was delightful to thinkof going back to New Moon and all the loved ones there--Teddy and hisdear whistle, Ilse and her stimulating comradeship, Perry with hisdetermined reaching up for higher things, Saucy Sal and the new kittenthat must be needing proper training now, and the fairy world of the_Midsummer Night’s Dream_. Cousin Jimmy’s garden would be in its primeof splendour, the August apples would be ripe. Suddenly, Emily was veryready to go. She packed her little black box jubilantly and found it anexcellent chance to work in neatly a certain line from a poem Dean hadrecently read to her which had captured her fancy.
“‘Good-bye, proud world, I’m going home,’” she declaimed feelingly,standing at the top of the long, dark, shining staircase andapostrophizing the row of grim Priest photographs hanging on the wall.
But she was much annoyed over one thing. Aunt Nancy would not give herback the picture Teddy had painted.
“I’m going to keep it,” Aunt Nancy said, grinning and shaking her goldtassels. “Some day that picture will be worth something as the earlyeffort of a famous artist.”
“I only lent it to you--I told you I only lent it to you,” said Emilyindignantly.
“I’m an unscrupulous old demon,” said Aunt Nancy coolly. “That iswhat the Priests all call me behind my back. Don’t they, Caroline?May as well have the game as the name. I happen to have a fancy forthat picture, that’s all. I’m going to frame it and hang it here in myparlour. But I’ll leave it to you in my will--that and the chessy-catand the gazing-ball and my gold earrings. Nothing else--I’m not goingto leave you a cent of my money--never count on that.”
“I don’t want it,” said Emily loftily. “I’m going to earn heaps ofmoney for myself. But it isn’t fair of you to keep my picture. It wasgiven to me.”
“I never was fair,” said Aunt Nancy. “Was I, Caroline?”
“No,” said Caroline shrewishly.
“You see. Now don’t make a fuss, Emily. You’ve been a very good childbut I feel that I’ve done my duty by you for this year. Go back to NewMoon and when Elizabeth won’t let you do things tell her _I_ always letyou. I don’t know if it will do any good but try it. Elizabeth, likeevery one else related to me, is always wondering what I’m going to dowith my money.”
Cousin Jimmy came over for Emily. How glad she was to see his kind facewith its gentle, elfish eyes and forked beard again! But she felt verybadly when she turned to Dean.
“If you like I’ll kiss you good-bye,” she said chokily.
Emily did not like kissing people. She did not really want to kissDean but she liked him so much she thought she ought to extend all thecourtesies to him.
Dean looked down smiling into her face, so young, so pure, so softlycurved.
“No, I don’t want you to kiss me--yet. And our first kiss mustn’t havethe flavour of good-bye. It would be a bad omen. Star O’ Morning, I’msorry you’re going. But I’ll see you again before long. My oldestsister lives in Blair Water, you know, and I feel a sudden access ofbrotherly affection towards her. I seem to see myself visiting her veryoften henceforth. In the meantime remember you have promised to writeme every week. And I’ll write you.”
“Nice fat letters,” coaxed Emily. “I love fat letters.”
“Fat! They’ll be positively corpulent, Star. Now, I’m not even going to_say_ good-bye. Let’s make a pact, Star. We’ll never _say_ good-bye toeach other. We’ll just smile and go.”
Emily made a gallant effort--smiled--and went. Aunt Nancy and Carolinereturned to the back parlour and their cribbage. Dean Priest whistledfor Tweed and went to the bay shore. He was so lonely that he laughedat himself.
Emily and Cousin Jimmy had so much to talk of that the drive homeseemed very short.
New Moon was white in the evening sunshine which also lay withexceeding mellowness on the grey old barns. The Three Princesses,shooting up against the silvery sky, were as remote and princessly asever. The old gulf was singing away down over the fields.
Aunt Laura came running out to meet them, her lovely blue eyes shiningwith pleasure. Aunt Elizabeth was in the cook-house preparing supperand only shook hands with Emily, but looked a trifle less grim andstately than usual, and she had made Emily’s favourite cream-puffs forsupper. Perry was hanging about, barefooted and sunburned, to tellher all the gossip of kittens and calves and little pigs and the newfoal. Ilse came swooping over, and Emily discovered she had forgottenhow vivid Ilse was--how brilliant her amber eyes, how golden her maneof spun-silk hair, looking more golden than ever under the brightblue silk tam Mrs. Simms had bought her in Shrewsbury. As an articleof dress, that loud tam made Laura Murray’s eyes and sensibilitiesache, but its colour certainly did set off Ilse’s wonderful hair. Sheengulfed Emily in a rapturous embrace and quarrelled bitterly with herten minutes later over the fact that Emily refused to give her SaucySal’s sole surviving kitten.
“I ought to have it, you doddering hyena,” stormed Ilse. “It’s as muchmine as yours, pig! Our old barn cat is its father.”
“Such talk is not decent,” said Aunt Elizabeth, pale with horror. “Andif you two children are going to quarrel over that kitten I’ll have itdrowned--remember that.”
Ilse was finally appeased by Emily’s offering to let her name thekitten and have a half interest in it. Ilse named it Daffodil. Emilydid not think this suitable, since, from the fact of Cousin Jimmyreferring to it as Little Tommy, she suspected it was of the sternersex. But rather than again provoke Aunt Elizabeth’s wrath by discussingtabooed subjects, she agreed.
“I can call it Daff,” she thought. “That sounds more _masculine_.”
The kitten was a delicate bit of striped greyness that reminded Emilyof her dear lost Mikes. And it smelled so nice--of warmth and cleanfurriness, with whiffs of the clover hay where Saucy Sal had made hermother-nest.
After supper she heard Teddy’s whistle in the old orchard--the sameenchanting call. Emily flew out to greet him--after all, there wasnobody just like Teddy in the world. They had an ecstatic scamper up tothe Tansy Patch to see a new puppy that Dr. Burnley had given Teddy.Mrs. Kent did not seem very glad to see Emily--she was colder and moreremote than ever, and she sat and watched the two children playing withthe chubby little pup with a smouldering fire in her dark eyes thatmade Emily vaguely uncomfortable whenever she happened to glance up andencounter it. Never before had she sensed Mrs. Kent’s dislike for herso keenly as that night.
“Why doesn’t your mother like me?” she asked Teddy bluntly, when theycarried little Leo to the barn for the night.
“Because _I_ do,” said Teddy briefly. “She doesn’t like _anything_ Ilike. I’m afraid she’ll poison Leo very soon. I--I wish she wasn’tso fond of me,” he burst out, in the beginning of a revolt againstthis abnormal jealousy of love, which he felt rather than understoodto be a fetter that was becoming galling. “She says she won’t let metake up Latin and Algebra this year--you know Miss Brownell said Imight--because I’m not to go to college. She says she can’t bear topart from me--ever. I don’t care about the Latin and stuff--but I wantto learn to be an artist--I want to go away some day to the schoolswhere they teach that. She won’t let me--she hates my pictures nowbecause she thinks I like them better than her. I _don’t_--I loveMother--she’s awful sweet and good to me every other way. But shethinks I do--and she’s burned some of them. I know she has. They’remissing from the barn wall and I can’t find them anywhere. If she doesanything to Leo--I’ll--I’ll _hate_ her.”
“Tell her that,” said Emily coolly, with some of the Murray shrewdnesscoming uppermost in her. “She doesn’t know that _you_ know she poisonedSmoke and Buttercup. Tell her you do know it and that if she doesanything to Leo you won’t love her any more. She’ll be so frightenedof your _not_ loving her that she won’t meddle with Leo--I _know_.Tell her gently--don’t hurt her feelings--but _tell_ her. It will,”concluded Emily, with a killing imitation of Aunt Elizabeth deliveringan ultimatum, “be better for all concerned.”
“I believe I will,” said Teddy, much impressed. “I _can’t_ have Leodisappear like my cats did--he’s the only dog I’ve ever had and I’vealways wanted a dog. Oh, Emily, I’m glad you’re back!”
It was very nice to be told this--especially by Teddy. Emily went hometo New Moon happily. In the old kitchen the candles were lighted andtheir flames were dancing in the winds of the August night blowingthrough door and window.
“I suppose you’ll not like candles very well, Emily, after being usedto lamps at Wyther Grange,” said Aunt Laura with a little sigh. It wasone of the bitter, small things in Laura Murray’s life that Elizabeth’styranny extended to candles.
Emily looked around her thoughtfully. One candle sputtered and bobbedat her as if greeting her. One, with a long wick, glowed and smoulderedlike a sulky little demon. One had a tiny flame--a sly, meditativecandle. One swayed with a queer fiery grace in the draught from thedoor. One burned with a steady upright flame like a faithful soul.
“I--don’t know--Aunt Laura,” she answered slowly. “You canbe--friends--with candles. I believe I like the candles best after all.”
Aunt Elizabeth, coming in from the cook-house, heard her. Somethinglike pleasure gleamed in her gulf-blue eyes.
“You have some sense in you,” she said.
“That’s the second compliment she has paid me,” thought Emily.
“I think Emily has grown taller since she went to Wyther Grange,” AuntLaura said, looking at her rather wistfully.
Aunt Elizabeth, snuffing the candles, glanced sharply over her glasses.
“I can’t see it,” she said. “Her dress is just the same length on her.”
“I’m sure she has,” persisted Laura.
Cousin Jimmy, to settle the dispute, measured Emily by the sitting-roomdoor. She just touched the former mark.
“You see,” said Aunt Elizabeth triumphantly, liking to be right even inthis small matter.
“She looks--different,” said Laura with a sigh.
Laura, after all, was right. Emily _had_ grown, taller and older, insoul, if not in body. It was this change which Laura felt, as closeand tender affection swiftly feels. The Emily who returned from WytherGrange was not the Emily who had gone there. She was no longer whollythe child. Aunt Nancy’s family histories over which she had pondered,her enduring anguish over the story of Ilse’s mother, that terriblehour when she had lain cheek by jowl with death on the cliffs of thebay shore, her association with Dean Priest, all had combined to matureher intelligence and her emotions. When she went to the garret nextmorning and pulled out her precious little bundle of manuscripts toread them lovingly over she was amazed and rather grieved to find thatthey were not half so good as she had believed they were. Some of themwere positively silly, she thought; she was ashamed of them--so ashamedthat she smuggled them down to the cook-house stove and burned them,much to Aunt Elizabeth’s annoyance when she came to prepare dinner andfound the fire-box all choked up with charred paper.
Emily no longer wondered that Miss Brownell had made fun ofthem--though this did not mellow her bitterness of remembrance inregard to that lady in any degree. The rest she put back on the sofashelf, including “The Child of the Sea,” which still impressed her asfairly good, though not just the wonderful composition she had oncedeemed it. She felt that many passages could be re-written to theiradvantage. Then she immediately began writing a new poem, “On ReturningHome After Weeks’ Absence.” As everything and everybody connected withNew Moon had to be mentioned in this poem it promised to be quite longand to furnish agreeable occupation for spare minutes in many weeks tocome. It was very good to be home again.
“There is no place just like dear New Moon,” thought Emily.
One thing that marked her return--one of those little household“epochs” that make a keener impression on the memory and imaginationthan perhaps their real importance warrants--was the fact that she wasgiven a room of her own. Aunt Elizabeth had found her unshared slumbertoo sweet a thing to be again surrendered. She decided that she couldnot put up any longer with a squirming bedfellow who asked unearthlyquestions at any hour of the night she took it into her head to do so.
So, after a long conference with Laura, it was settled that Emily wasto have her mother’s room--the “lookout” as it was called, thoughit was not really a lookout. But it occupied the place in New Moon,looking over the front door to the garden, that the real lookouts didin other Blair Water houses, so it went by that name. It had beenprepared for Emily’s occupancy in her absence and when bedtime came onthe first evening of her return Aunt Elizabeth curtly told her thathenceforth she was to have her mother’s room.
“All to myself?” exclaimed Emily.
“Yes. We will expect you to take care of it yourself and keep it verytidy.”
“It has never been slept in since the night before your mother--wentaway,” said Aunt Laura, with a queer sound in her voice--a sound ofwhich Aunt Elizabeth disapproved.
“Your mother,” she said, looking coldly at Emily over the flame of thecandle--an attitude that gave a rather gruesome effect to her acquilinefeatures--“_ran_ away--flouted her family and broke her father’s heart.She was a silly, ungrateful, disobedient girl. I hope _you_ will neverdisgrace your family by such conduct.”
“Oh, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily breathlessly, “when you hold thecandle down like that it makes your face look just like a corpse! Oh,it’s so interesting.”
Aunt Elizabeth turned and led the way upstairs in grim silence. Therewas no use in wasting perfectly good admonitions on a child like this.
Left alone in her lookout, lighted dimly by the one small candle, Emilygazed about her with keen and thrilling interest. She could not getinto bed until she had explored every bit of it. The room was veryold-fashioned, like all the New Moon rooms. The walls were papered witha design of slender gilt diamonds enclosing golden stars and hung withworked woollen mottoes and pictures that had been “supplements” in thegirlhood of her aunts. One of them, hanging over the head of the bed,represented two guardian angels. In its day this had been much admiredbut Emily looked at it with distaste.
“I don’t like feather wings on angels,” she said decidedly. “Angelsshould have rainbowy wings.”
On the floor was a pretty homespun carpet and round braided rugs. Therewas a high black bedstead with carved posts, a fat feather-bed, and anIrish chain quilt, but, as Emily was glad to see, no curtains. A littletable, with funny claw-feet and brass-knobbed drawers, stood by thewindow, which was curtained with muslin frills; one of the window-panescontorted the landscape funnily, making a hill where no hill was. Emilyliked this--she couldn’t have told why, but it was really becauseit gave the pane an individuality of its own. An oval mirror in atarnished gilt frame hung above the table; Emily was delighted tofind she could see herself in it--“all but my boots”--without craningor tipping it. “And it doesn’t twist my face or turn my complexiongreen,” she thought happily. Two high-backed, black chairs withhorsehair seats, a little washstand with a blue basin and pitcher, anda faded ottoman with woollen roses cross-stitched on it, completed thefurnishing. On the little mantel were vases full of dried and colouredgrasses and a fascinating pot-bellied bottle filled with West Indianshells. On either side were lovable little cupboards with leaded-glassdoors like those in the sitting-room. Underneath was a small fireplace.
“I wonder if Aunt Elizabeth will ever let me have a little fire here,”thought Emily.
The room was full of that indefinable charm found in all rooms wherethe pieces of furniture, whether old or new, are well acquainted witheach other and the walls and floors are on good terms. Emily felt itall over her as she flitted about examining everything. This was herroom--she loved it already--she felt perfectly at home.
“I belong here,” she breathed happily.
She felt deliciously _near_ to her mother--as if Juliet Starr hadsuddenly become real to her. It thrilled her to think that her motherhad probably crocheted the lace cover on the round pincushion on thetable. And that fat, black jar of pot-pourri on the mantel--her mothermust have compounded it. When Emily lifted the lid a faint spicy odourfloated out. The souls of all the roses that had bloomed through manyolden summers at New Moon seemed to be prisoned there in a sort offlower purgatory. Something in the haunting, mystical, elusive odourgave Emily _the flash_--and her room had received its consecration.
There was a picture of her mother hanging over the mantel--a largedaguerreotype taken when she was a little girl. Emily looked at itlovingly. She had the picture of her mother which her father had left,taken after their marriage. But when Aunt Elizabeth had brought thatfrom Maywood to New Moon she had hung it in the parlour where Emilyseldom saw it. This picture, in her bedroom, of the golden-haired,rose-cheeked girl, was all her own. She could look at it--talk to it atwill.
“Oh, Mother,” she said, “what did you think of when you were a littlegirl here like me? I wish I could have known you _then_. And to thinknobody has ever slept here since that last night you did before youran away with Father. Aunt Elizabeth says you were wicked to do it but_I_ don’t think you were. It wasn’t as if you were running away witha _stranger_. Anyway, I’m glad you _did_, because if you hadn’t therewouldn’t have been any _me_.”
Emily, very glad that there was an Emily, opened her lookout window ashigh as it would go, got into bed and drifted off to sleep, feeling ahappiness that was so deep as to be almost pain as she listened to thesonorous sweep of the night wind among the great trees in Lofty John’sbush. When she wrote to her father a few days later she began theletter “Dear Father and Mother.”
“And I’ll always write the letter to _you_ as well as Father afterthis, Mother. I’m sorry I left you out so long. But you didn’t seem_real_ till that night I came home. I made the bed beautifully nextmorning--Aunt Elizabeth didn’t find a bit of fault with it--and Idusted _everything_--and when I went out I knelt down and kissed thedoorstep. I didn’t think Aunt Elizabeth saw me but she did and said hadI gone crazy. Why does Aunt Elizabeth think any one is crazy who doessomething she never does? I said ‘No, it’s only because I love my roomso much’ and she sniffed and said ‘You’d better love your God.’ But soI do, dear Father--and Mother--and I love Him better than ever sinceI have my dear room. I can see all over the garden from it and intoLofty John’s bush and one little bit of the Blair Water through the gapin the trees where the Yesterday Road runs. I like to go to bed earlynow. I love to lie all alone in my own room and make poetry and thinkout descriptions of things while I look through the open window at thestars and the nice, big, kind, quiet trees in Lofty John’s bush.
“Oh, Father dear and Mother, we are going to have a new teacher. MissBrownell is not coming back. She is going to be married and Ilse saysthat when her father heard it he said ‘God help the man.’ And the newteacher is a Mr. Carpenter. Ilse saw him when he came to see her fatherabout the school--because Dr. Burnley is a trustee this year--and shesays he has bushy grey hair and whiskers. He is married, too, and isgoing to live in that little old house down in the hollow below theschool. It seems so funny to think of a teacher having a wife andwhiskers.
“I am glad to be home. But I miss Dean and the gazing-ball. AuntElizabeth looked very cross when she saw my bang but didn’t sayanything. Aunt Laura says just to keep quiet and go on wearing it.But I don’t feel comfortable going against Aunt Elizabeth so I havecombed it all back except a _little_ fringe. I don’t feel _quite_comfortable about it even yet, but I have to put up with being a littleuncomfortable for the sake of my looks. Aunt Laura says bustles aregoing out of style so I’ll never be able to have one but I don’t carebecause I think they’re ugly. Rhoda Stuart will be cross because shewas just longing to be old enough to wear a bustle. I hope I’ll be ableto have a gin-jar all to myself when the weather gets cold. There is arow of gin-jars on the high shelf in the cook-house.
“Teddy and I had the nicest _adventure_ yesterday evening. We are goingto keep it a secret from everybody--partly because it was so nice, andpartly because we think we’d get a fearful scolding for one thing wedid.
“We went up to the Disappointed House, and we found one of the boardson the windows loose. So we pried it off and crawled in and went allover the house. It is lathed but not plastered, and the shavings arelying all over the floors just as the carpenters left them yearsago. It seemed more disappointed than ever. I just felt like crying.There was a dear little fireplace in one room so we went to work andkindled a fire in it with shavings and pieces of boards (this is thething we would be scolded for, likely) and then sat before it on anold carpenter’s bench and talked. We decided that when we grew up wewould buy the Disappointed House and live here together. Teddy said hesupposed we’d have to get married, but I thought maybe we could finda way to manage without going to all that bother. Teddy will paintpictures and I will write poetry and we will have toast and bacon andmarmalade _every morning_ for breakfast--just like Wyther Grange--but_never_ porridge. And we’ll always have lots of nice things to eat inthe pantry and I’ll make lots of jam and Teddy is always going to helpme wash the dishes and we’ll hang the gazing-ball from the middle ofthe ceiling in the fireplace room--because likely Aunt Nancy will bedead by then.
“When the fire burned out we jammed the board into place in the windowand came away. Every now and then to-day Teddy would say to me “Toastand bacon and marmalade” in the _most mysterious_ tones and Ilse andPerry are wild because they can’t find out what he means.
“Cousin Jimmy has got Jimmy Joe Belle to help with the harvest. JimmyJoe Belle comes from over Derry Pond way. There are a great many Frenchthere and when a French girl marries they call her mostly by herhusband’s first name instead of Mrs. like the English do. If a girlnamed Mary marries a man named Leon she will always be called Mary Leonafter that. But in Jimmy Joe Belle’s case, it is the other way and heis called by his wife’s name. I asked Cousin Jimmy why, and he said itwas because Jimmy Joe was a poor stick of a creature and Belle worethe britches. But still I don’t understand. Jimmy Joe wears britcheshimself--that means trousers--and why should he be called Jimmy JoeBelle instead of her being called Belle Jimmy Joe just because shewears them too! I won’t rest till I find out.
“Cousin Jimmy’s garden is splendid now. The tiger lilies are out. I amtrying to love them because nobody seems to like them at all but deepdown in my heart I know I love the late roses best. You just can’t helploving the roses best.
“Ilse and I hunted all over the old orchard to-day for a four-leavedclover and couldn’t find one. Then I found one in a clump of cloverby the dairy steps to-night when I was straining the milk and neverthinking of clovers. Cousin Jimmy says that is the way luck alwayscomes, and it is no use to look for it.
“It is lovely to be with Ilse again. We have only fought twice since Icame home. I am going to try not to fight with Ilse any more becauseI don’t think it is dignified, although quite interesting. But it ishard not to because even when I keep quiet and don’t say a word Ilsethinks that’s a way of fighting and gets madder and says worse thingsthan ever. Aunt Elizabeth says it always takes two to make a quarrelbut she doesn’t know Ilse as I do. Ilse called me a sneaking albatrossto-day. I wonder how many animals are left to call me. She neverrepeats the same one twice. I wish she wouldn’t clapper-claw Perry somuch. (Clapper-claw is a word I learned from Aunt Nancy. Very striking,I think.) It seems as if she couldn’t bear him. He dared Teddy to jumpfrom the henhouse roof across to the pighouse roof. Teddy wouldn’t. Hesaid he would try it if it had to be done or would do anybody any goodbut he wasn’t going to do it just to show off. Perry did it and landedsafe. If he hadn’t he might have broken his neck. Then he bragged aboutit and said Teddy was afraid and Ilse turned red as a beet and toldhim to shut up or she would bite his snout off. She can’t bear to haveanything said against Teddy, but I guess he can take care of himself.
“Ilse can’t study for the Entrance either. Her father won’t let her.But she says she doesn’t care. She says she’s going to run away whenshe gets a little older and study for the stage. That sounds wicked,but interesting.
“I felt very queer and guilty when I saw Ilse first, because I knewabout her mother. I don’t know why I felt guilty because I had nothingto do with it. The feeling is wearing away a little now but I am sounhappy by spells over it. I wish I could either forget it altogetheror find out the rights of it. Because I am sure nobody knows them.
“I had a letter from Dean to-day. He writes lovely letters--just asif I was grown up. He sent me a little poem he had cut out of a papercalled _The Fringed Gentian_. He said it made him think of me. It isall lovely but I like the last verse best of all. This is it:
    Then whisper, blossom, in thy sleep    How I may upward climb    The Alpine Path, so hard, so steep,    That leads to heights sublime.    How I may reach that far-off goal    Of true and honored fame    And write upon its shining scroll    A woman’s humble name.
“When I read that _the flash_ came, and I took a sheet of paper--Iforgot to tell you Cousin Jimmy gave me a little box of paper andenvelopes--_on the sly_--and I wrote on it:
    I, Emily Byrd Starr, do solemnly vow this day that I will climb    the Alpine Path and write my name on the scroll of fame.
“Then I put it in the envelope and sealed it up and wrote on it _TheVow of Emily Byrd Starr, aged 12 years and 3 months_, and put it awayon the sofa shelf in the garret.
“I am writing a murder story now and I am trying to feel how a manwould feel who was a murderer. It is creepy, but thrilling. I almostfeel as if I _had_ murdered somebody.
        “Good night, dear Father and Mother.                       “Your lovingest daughter,                                           “_Emily_.
“P. S. I have been wondering how I’ll sign my name when I grow up andprint my pieces. I don’t know which would be best--Emily Byrd Starr infull or Emily B. Starr, or E. B. Starr, or E. Byrd Starr. SometimesI think I’ll have a _nom-de-plume_--that is, another name you pickfor yourself. It’s in my dictionary among the “French phrases” at theback. If I did that then I could hear people talking of my pieces rightbefore me, never suspecting, and say just what they really thought ofthem. That would be interesting but perhaps not always comfortable. Ithink I’ll be,
                                  “_E. Byrd Starr_.”



CHAPTER XXVIII
A WEAVER OF DREAMS

It took Emily several weeks to make up her mind whether she liked Mr.Carpenter or not. She knew she did not _dis_like him, not even thoughhis first greeting, shot at her on the opening day of school in a gruffvoice, accompanied by a startling lift of his spiky grey brows was, “Soyou’re the girl that writes poetry, eh? Better stick to your needle andduster. Too many fools in the world trying to write poetry and failing.I tried it myself once. Got better sense now.”
“You don’t keep your nails clean,” thought Emily.
But he upset every kind of school tradition so speedily and thoroughlythat Ilse, who gloried in upsetting things and hated routine, was theonly scholar that liked him from the start. Some never liked him--theRhoda Stuart type for example--but most of them came to it after theygot used to never being used to anything. And Emily finally decidedthat she liked him tremendously.
Mr. Carpenter was somewhere between forty and fifty--a tall man, withan upstanding shock of bushy grey hair, bristling grey moustache andeyebrows, a truculent beard, bright blue eyes out of which all hiswild life had not yet burned the fire, and a long, lean, greyishface, deeply lined. He lived in a little two-roomed house below theschool with a shy mouse of a wife. He never talked of his past oroffered any explanation of the fact that at his age he had no betterprofession than teaching a district school for a pittance of salary,but the truth leaked out after a while; for Prince Edward Island is asmall province and everybody in it knows something about everybodyelse. So eventually Blair Water people, and even the school children,understood that Mr. Carpenter had been a brilliant student in his youthand had had his eye on the ministry. But at college he had got in witha “fast set”--Blair Water people nodded heads slowly and whisperedthe dreadful phrase portentously--and the fast set had ruined him. He“took to drink” and went to the dogs generally. And the upshot of itall was that Francis Carpenter, who had led his class in his first andsecond years at McGill, and for whom his teachers had predicted a greatcareer, was a country school-teacher at forty-five with no prospect ofever being anything else. Perhaps he was resigned to it--perhaps not.Nobody ever knew, not even the brown mouse of a wife. Nobody in BlairWater cared--he was a good teacher, and that was all that mattered.Even if he did go on occasional “sprees” he always took Saturday forthem and was sober enough by Monday. Sober, and especially dignified,wearing a rusty black frock coat which he never put on any other dayof the week. He did not invite pity and he did not pose as a tragedy.But sometimes, when Emily looked at his face, bent over the arithmeticproblems of Blair Water School, she felt horribly sorry for him withoutin the least understanding why.
He had an explosive temper which generally burst into flame at leastonce a day, and then he would storm about wildly for a few minutes,tugging at his beard, imploring heaven to grant him patience,abusing everybody in general and the luckless object of his wrath inparticular. But these tempers never lasted long. In a few minutes Mr.Carpenter would be smiling as graciously as a sun bursting through astorm-cloud on the very pupil he had been rating. Nobody seemed tocherish any grudge because of his scoldings. He never said any of thebiting things Miss Brownell was wont to say, which rankled and festeredfor weeks; his hail of words fell alike on just and unjust and rolledoff harmlessly.
He could take a joke on himself in perfect good nature. “Do you hearme? Do you hear me, sirrah?” he bellowed to Perry Miller one day. “Ofcourse I hear you,” retorted Perry coolly, “they could hear you inCharlottetown.” Mr. Carpenter stared for a moment, then broke into agreat, jolly laugh.
His methods of teaching were so different from Miss Brownell’s thatthe Blair Water pupils at first felt as if he had stood them on theirheads. Miss Brownell had been a martinet for order. Mr. Carpenternever tried to keep order apparently. But somehow he kept the childrenso busy that they had no time to do mischief. He taught historytempestuously for a month, making his pupils play the differentcharacters and enact the incidents. He never bothered any one tolearn dates--but the dates stuck in the memory just the same. If, asMary Queen of Scots, you were beheaded by the school axe, kneelingblindfolded at the doorstep, with Perry Miller, wearing a mask made outof a piece of Aunt Laura’s old black silk, for executioner, wonderingwhat would happen if he brought the axe down _too_ hard, you did notforget the year it happened; and if you fought the battle of Waterlooall over the school playground, and heard Teddy Kent shouting, “Up,Guards and at ’em!” as he led the last furious charge you remembered1815 without half trying to.
Next month history would be thrust aside altogether and geographywould take its place, when school and playground were mapped out intocountries and you dressed up as the animals inhabiting them or tradedin various commodities over their rivers and cities. When Rhoda Stuarthad cheated you in a bargain in hides, you remembered that she hadbought the cargo from the Argentine Republic, and when Perry Millerwould not drink any water for a whole hot summer day because he wascrossing the Arabian Desert with a caravan of camels and could notfind an oasis, and then drank so much that he took terrible cramps andAunt Laura had to be up all night with him--you did not forget wherethe said desert was. The trustees were quite scandalized over some ofthe goings on and felt sure that the children were having too good atime to be really learning anything.
If you wanted to learn Latin and French you had to do it by talkingyour exercises, not writing them, and on Friday afternoons all lessonswere put aside and Mr. Carpenter made the children recite poems, makespeeches and declaim passages from Shakespeare and the Bible. This wasthe day Ilse loved. Mr. Carpenter pounced on her gift like a starvingdog on a bone and drilled her without mercy. They had endless fightsand Ilse stamped her foot and called him names while the other pupilswondered why she was not punished for it but at last had to give inand do as he willed. Ilse went to school regularly--something she hadnever done before. Mr. Carpenter had told her that if she were absentfor a day without good excuse she could take no part in the Friday“exercises” and this would have killed her.
One day Mr. Carpenter had picked up Teddy’s slate and found a sketchof himself on it, in one of his favourite if not exactly beautifulattitudes. Teddy had labelled it “The Black Death”--half of the pupilsof the school having died that day of the Great Plague, and havingbeen carried out on stretchers to the Potter’s Field by the terrifiedsurvivors.
Teddy expected a roar of denunciation, for the day before GarrettMarshall had been ground into figurative pulp on being discovered withthe picture of a harmless cow on his slate--at least, Garrett said hemeant it for a cow. But now this amazing Mr. Carpenter only drew hisbeetling brows together, looked earnestly at Teddy’s slate, put it downon the desk, looked at Teddy, and said,
“I don’t know anything about drawing--I can’t help you, but, by gad, Ithink hereafter you’d better give up those extra arithmetic problems inthe afternoon and draw pictures.”
Whereupon Garrett Marshall went home and told his father that “oldCarpenter” wasn’t fair and “made favourites” over Teddy Kent.
Mr. Carpenter went up to the Tansy Patch that evening and saw thesketches in Teddy’s old barn-loft studio. Then he went into the houseand talked to Mrs. Kent. What he said and what she said nobody everknew. But Mr. Carpenter went away looking grim, as if he had met anunexpected match. He took great pains with Teddy’s general school workafter that and procured from somewhere certain elementary text books ondrawing which he gave him, telling him not to take them home--a cautionTeddy did not require. He knew quite well that if he did they woulddisappear as mysteriously as his cats had done. He had taken Emily’sadvice and told his mother he would not love _her_ if anything happenedto Leo, and Leo flourished and waxed fat and doggy. But Teddy was toogentle at heart and too fond of his mother to make such a threat morethan once. He knew she had cried all that night after Mr. Carpenter hadbeen there, and prayed on her knees in her little bedroom most of thenext day, and looked at him with bitter, haunting eyes for a week. Hewished she were more like other fellows’ mothers but they loved eachother very much and had dear hours together in the little grey house onthe tansy hill. It was only when other people were about that Mrs. Kentwas queer and jealous.
“She’s always lovely when we’re alone,” Teddy had told Emily.
As for the other boys, Perry Miller was the only one Mr. Carpenterbothered much with in the way of speeches--and he was as mercilesswith him as with Ilse. Perry worked hard to please him and practicedhis speeches in barn and field--and even by nights in the kitchenloft--until Aunt Elizabeth put a stop to _that_. Emily could notunderstand why Mr. Carpenter would smile amiably and say, “Very good”when Neddy Gray rattled off a speech glibly, without any expressionwhatever, and then rage at Perry and denounce him as a dunce and anincompoop, by gad, because he had failed to give just the properemphasis on a certain word, or had timed his gesture a fraction of asecond too soon.
Neither could she understand why he made red pencil correctionsall over her compositions and rated her for split infinitives andtoo lavish adjectives and strode up and down the aisle and hurledobjurgations at her because she didn’t know “a good place to stop whenshe saw it, by gad,” and then told Rhoda Stuart and Nan Lee that theircompositions were very pretty and gave them back without so much asa mark on them. Yet, in spite of it all, she liked him more and moreas time went on and autumn passed and winter came with its beautifulbare-limbed trees, and soft pearl-grey skies that were slashed withrifts of gold in the afternoons, and cleared to a jewelled pageantry ofstars over the wide white hills and valleys around New Moon.
Emily shot up so that winter that Aunt Laura had to let down the tucksin her dresses. Aunt Ruth, who had come for a week’s visit, said shewas outgrowing her strength--consumptive children always did.
“I am _not_ consumptive,” Emily said. “The Starrs are tall,” she added,with a touch of subtle malice hardly to be looked for in near-thirteen.
Aunt Ruth, who was sensitive in regard to her dumpiness, sniffed.
“It would be well if _that_ were the only thing in which you resemblethem,” she said. “How are you getting on in school?”
“Very well. I am the smartest scholar in my class,” answered Emilycomposedly.
“You conceited child!” said Aunt Ruth.
“I’m _not_ conceited.” Emily looked scornful indignation. “Mr.Carpenter said it and _he_ doesn’t flatter. Besides, I can’t helpseeing it myself.”
“Well, it is to be hoped you have some brains, because you haven’tmuch in the way of looks,” said Aunt Ruth. “You’ve no complexion tospeak of--and that inky hair around your white face is startling. I seeyou’re going to be a plain girl.”
“You wouldn’t say that to a grown-up person’s face,” said Emily with adeliberate gravity which always exasperated Aunt Ruth because she couldnot understand it in a child. “I don’t think it would hurt you to be aspolite to me as you are to other people.”
“I’m telling you your faults so you may correct them,” said Aunt Ruthfrigidly.
“It _isn’t_ my fault that my face is pale and my hair black,” protestedEmily. “I can’t correct that.”
“If you were a different girl,” said Aunt Ruth, “I would--”
“But I don’t _want_ to be a different girl,” said Emily decidedly. Shehad no intention of lowering the Starr flag to Aunt Ruth. “I wouldn’twant to be anybody but myself even if I am plain. Besides,” she addedimpressively as she turned to go out of the room, “though I may notbe very good-looking now, when I go to heaven I believe I’ll be verybeautiful.”
“Some people think Emily quite pretty,” said Aunt Laura, but she didnot say it until Emily was out of hearing. She was Murray enough forthat.
“I don’t know where they see it,” said Aunt Ruth. “She’s vain andpert and says things to be thought smart. You heard her just now. Butthe thing I dislike most in her is that she is un-childlike--and deepas the sea. Yes, she is, Laura--deep as the sea. You’ll find it outto your cost one day if you disregard my warning. She’s capable ofanything. Sly is no word for it. You and Elizabeth don’t keep a tightenough rein over her.”
“I’ve done my best,” said Elizabeth stiffly. She herself did thinkshe had been much too lenient with Emily--Laura and Jimmy were two toone--but it nettled her to have Ruth say so.
Uncle Wallace also had an attack of worrying over Emily that winter.
He looked at her one day when he was at New Moon and remarked that shewas getting to be a big girl.
“How old are you, Emily?” He asked her that every time he came to NewMoon.
“Thirteen in May.”
“H’m. What are you going to do with her, Elizabeth?”
“I don’t know what you mean,” said Aunt Elizabeth coldly--or ascoldly as is possible to speak when one is pouring melted tallow intocandle-moulds.
“Why, she’ll soon be grown up. She can’t expect you to provide for herindefinitely”--
“I don’t,” Emily whispered resentfully under her breath.
“--and it’s time we decided what is best to be done for her.”
“The Murray women have never had to work out for a living,” said AuntElizabeth, as if that disposed of the matter.
“Emily is only half Murray,” said Wallace. “Besides, times arechanging. You and Laura will not live forever, Elizabeth, and when youare gone New Moon goes to Oliver’s Andrew. In my opinion Emily shouldbe fitted to support herself if necessary.”
Emily did not like Uncle Wallace but she was very grateful to him atthat moment. Whatever his motives were he was proposing the very thingshe secretly yearned for.
“I would suggest,” said Uncle Wallace, “that she be sent to Queen’sAcademy to get a teacher’s license. Teaching is a genteel, lady-likeoccupation. _I_ will do my share in providing for the expense of it.”
A blind person might have seen that Uncle Wallace thought this verysplendid of himself.
“If you do,” thought Emily, “I’ll pay every cent back to you as soon asI’m able to earn it.”
But Aunt Elizabeth was adamant.
“I do not believe in girls going out into the world,” she said. “Idon’t mean Emily to go to Queen’s. I told Mr. Carpenter so when hecame to see me about her taking up the Entrance work. He was veryrude--school-teachers knew their place better in my father’s time. ButI made him understand, I think. I’m rather surprised at _you_, Wallace.You did not send your own daughter out to work.”
“_My_ daughter had parents to provide for her,” retorted Uncle Wallacepompously. “Emily is an orphan. I imagined from what I had heard abouther that she would prefer earning her own living to living on charity.”
“So I would,” cried out Emily. “So I would, Uncle Wallace. Oh, AuntElizabeth, please let me study for the Entrance. Please! I’ll pay youback every cent you spend on it--I will indeed. I pledge you my word ofhonour.”
“It does not happen to be a question of money,” said Aunt Elizabethin her stateliest manner. “I undertook to provide for you, Emily, andI will do it. When you are older I may send you to the High School inShrewbury for a couple of years. I am not decrying education. But youare not going to be a slave to the public--no Murray girl ever was_that_.”
Emily realising the uselessness of pleading, went out in the samebitter disappointment she had felt after Mr. Carpenter’s visit. ThenAunt Elizabeth looked at Wallace.
“Have you forgotten what came of sending Juliet to Queen’s?” she askedsignificantly.
If Emily was not allowed to take up the Entrance classes, Perryhad no one to say him nay and he went at them with the same doggeddetermination he showed in all other matters. Perry’s status at NewMoon had changed subtly and steadily. Aunt Elizabeth had ceased torefer scornfully to him as “a hired boy.” Even she recognised thatthough he was still indubitably a hired boy he was not going to remainone, and she no longer objected to Laura’s patching up his ragged bitsof clothing, or to Emily’s helping him with his lessons in the kitchenafter supper, nor did she growl when Cousin Jimmy began to pay him acertain small wage--though older boys than Perry were still glad to putin the winter months choring for board and lodging in some comfortablehome. If a future premier was in the making at New Moon Aunt Elizabethwanted to have some small share in the making. It was credible andcommendable that a boy should have ambitions. A girl was an entirelydifferent matter. A girl’s place was at home.
Emily helped Perry work out algebra problems and heard his lessons inFrench and Latin. She picked up more thus than Aunt Elizabeth wouldhave approved and more still when the Entrance pupils talked thoselanguages in school. It was quite an easy matter for a girl who hadonce upon a time invented a language of her own. When George Bates,by way of showing off, asked her one day in French--_his_ French, ofwhich Mr. Carpenter had once said doubtfully that perhaps God mightunderstand it--“Have you the ink of my grandmother and the shoebrush ofmy cousin and the umbrella of my aunt’s husband in your desk?” Emilyretorted quite as glibly and _quite_ as Frenchily, “No, but I have thepen of your father and the cheese of the innkeeper and the towel ofyour uncle’s maidservant in my basket.”
To console herself for her disappointment in regard to the Entranceclass Emily wrote more poetry than ever. It was especially delightfulto write poetry on a winter evening when the storm winds howled withoutand heaped the garden and orchard with big ghostly drifts, starredover with rabbits’ candles. She also wrote several stories--desperatelove affairs wherein she struggled heroically against the difficultiesof affectionate dialogue; tales of bandits and pirates--Emily likedthese because there was no necessity for bandits and pirates toconverse lovingly; tragedies of earls and countesses whose conversationshe dearly loved to pepper with scraps of French; and a dozen othersubjects she didn’t know anything about. She also meditated beginning anovel but decided it would be too hard to get enough paper for it. Theletter-bills were all done now and the Jimmy-books were not big enough,though a new one always appeared mysteriously in her school basket whenthe old one was almost full. Cousin Jimmy seemed to have an uncannyprescience of the proper time--that was part of his Jimmyness.
Then one night, as she lay in her lookout bed and watched a full moongleaming lustrously from a cloudless sky across the valley, she had asudden dazzling idea.
She would send her latest poem to the Charlottetown _Enterprise_.
The _Enterprise_ had a Poet’s Corner where “original” verses werefrequently printed. Privately Emily thought her own were quite asgood--as probably they were, for most of the _Enterprise_ “poems” weresad trash.
Emily was so excited over the idea that she could not sleep for thegreater part of the night--and didn’t want to. It was glorious to liethere, thrilling in the darkness, and picture the whole thing out. Shesaw her verses in print signed E. Byrd Starr--she saw Aunt Laura’seyes shining with pride--she saw Mr. Carpenter pointing them out tostrangers--“the work of a pupil of mine, by gad”--she saw all herschoolmates envying her or admiring, according to type--she saw herselfwith one foot at least firmly planted on the ladder of fame--one hillat least of the Alpine Path crested, with a new and glorious prospectopening therefrom.
Morning came. Emily went to school, so absent-minded because of hersecret that she did badly in everything and was raged at by Mr.Carpenter. But it all slipped off her like the proverbial water off aduck’s back. Her body was in Blair Water school but her spirit was inkingdoms empyreal.
As soon as school was out she betook herself to the garret with half asheet of blue-lined notepaper. Very painstakingly she copied down thepoem, being especially careful to dot every _i_ and cross every _t_.She wrote it on both sides of the paper, being in blissful ignoranceof any taboo thereon. Then she read it aloud delightedly, not omittingthe title _Evening Dreams_. There was one line in it she tasted two orthree times:
    The haunting elfin music of the air.
“I think that line is _very_ good,” said Emily. “I wonder now how Ihappened to think of it.”
She mailed her poem the next day and lived in a delicious mysticrapture until the following Saturday. When the _Enterprise_ came sheopened it with tremulous eagerness and ice-cold fingers, and turned tothe Poet’s Corner. Now for her great moment!
There was not a sign of an Evening Dream about it!
Emily threw down the _Enterprise_ and fled to the garret dormer where,face downward on the old haircloth sofa, she wept out her bitternessof disappointment. She drained the draught of failure to the verydregs. It was horribly real and tragic to her. She felt exactly as ifshe had been slapped in the face. She was crushed in the very dust ofhumiliation and was sure she could never rise again.
How thankful she was that she hadn’t told Teddy anything about it--shehad been so strongly tempted to, and only refrained because she didn’twant to spoil the dramatic surprise of the moment when she would showhim the verses with her name signed to them. She _had_ told Perry,and Perry was furious when he saw her tear-stained face later on inthe dairy, as they strained the milk together. Ordinarily Emily lovedthis, but to-night the savour had gone out of the world. Even themilky splendour of the still, mild winter evening and the purple bloomover the hillside woods that presaged a thaw could not give her theaccustomed soul-thrill.
“I’m going to Charlottetown if I have to walk and I’ll bust that_Enterprise_ editor’s head,” said Perry, with the expression which,thirty years later, warned the members of his party to scatter forcover.
“That wouldn’t be any use,” said Emily drearily. “He didn’t think itgood enough to print--that is what hurts me so, Perry--he didn’t thinkit any good. Busting his head wouldn’t change _that_.”
It took her a week to recover from the blow. Then she wrote a storyin which the editor of the _Enterprise_ played the part of a dark anddesperate villain who found lodging eventually behind prison bars.This got the venom out of her system and she forgot all about him inthe delight of writing a poem addressed to “Sweet Lady April.” ButI question if she ever really forgave him--even when she discoveredeventually that you must _not_ write on both sides of the paper--evenwhen she read over _Evening Dreams_ a year later and wondered how shecould ever have thought it any good.
This sort of thing was happening frequently now. Every time she readher little hoard of manuscripts over she found some of which the fairygold had unaccountably turned to withered leaves, fit only for theburning. Emily burned them,--but it hurt her a little. Outgrowingthings we love is never a pleasant process.



CHAPTER XXIX
SACRILEGE

There had been several clashes between Aunt Elizabeth and Emily thatwinter and spring. Generally Aunt Elizabeth came out victorious; therewas that in her that would not be denied the satisfaction of havingher own way even in trifling matters. But once in a while she came upagainst that curious streak of granite in Emily’s composition which wasunyielding and unbendable and unbreakable. Mary Murray, of a hundredyears agone, had been, so family chronicle ran, a gentle and submissivecreature generally; but she had that same streak in her, as her “Here IStay” abundantly testified. When Aunt Elizabeth tried conclusions withthat element in Emily she always got the worst of it. Yet she did notlearn wisdom therefrom but pursued her policy of repression all themore rigorously; for it occasionally came home to her, as Laura letdown tucks, that Emily was on the verge of beginning to grow up andthat various breakers and reefs loomed ahead, ominously magnified inthe mist of unseen years. Emily must not be allowed to get out of handnow, lest later on she make shipwreck as her mother had done--or asElizabeth Murray firmly believed she had done. There were, in short, tobe no more elopements from New Moon.
One of the things they fell out about was the fact that Emily, as AuntElizabeth discovered one day, was in the habit of using more of heregg money to buy paper than Aunt Elizabeth approved of. What did Emilydo with so much paper? They had a fuss over this and eventually AuntElizabeth discovered that Emily was writing stories. Emily had beenwriting stories all winter under Aunt Elizabeth’s very nose and AuntElizabeth had never suspected it. She had fondly supposed that Emilywas writing school compositions. Aunt Elizabeth knew in a vague waythat Emily wrote silly rhymes which she called “poetry” but this didnot worry her especially. Jimmy made up a lot of similar trash. It wasfoolish but harmless and Emily would doubtless outgrow it. Jimmy hadnot outgrown it, to be sure, but then his accident--Elizabeth alwayswent a little sick in soul when she remembered it--had made him more orless a child for life.
But writing stories was a very different thing and Aunt Elizabeth washorrified. Fiction of any kind was an abominable thing. ElizabethMurray had been trained up in this belief in her youth and in herage she had not departed from it. She honestly thought that it was awicked and sinful thing in anyone to play cards, dance, or go to thetheatre, read or write novels, and in Emily’s case there was a worsefeature--it was the Starr coming out in her--Douglas Starr especially.No Murray of New Moon had ever been guilty of writing “stories” or ofever wanting to write them. It was an alien growth that must be prunedoff ruthlessly. Aunt Elizabeth applied the pruning shears; and foundno pliant, snippable root but that same underlying streak of granite.Emily was respectful and reasonable and above-board; she bought nomore paper with egg money; but she told Aunt Elizabeth that she couldnot give up writing stories and she went right on writing them, onpieces of brown wrapping paper and the blank backs of circulars whichagricultural machinery firms sent Cousin Jimmy.
“Don’t you know that it is wicked to write novels?” demanded AuntElizabeth.
“Oh, I’m not writing novels--yet,” said Emily. “I can’t get enoughpaper. These are just short stories. And it isn’t wicked--Father likednovels.”
“Your father--” began Aunt Elizabeth, and stopped. She remembered thatEmily had “acted up” before now when anything derogatory was said ofher father. But the very fact that she felt mysteriously compelled tostop annoyed Elizabeth, who had said what seemed good to her all herlife at New Moon without much regard for other people’s feelings.
“You will not write any more of _this stuff_,” Aunt Elizabethcontemptuously flourished “The Secret of the Castle” under Emily’snose. “I forbid you--remember, I forbid you.”
“Oh, I must write, Aunt Elizabeth,” said Emily gravely, folding herslender, beautiful hands on the table and looking straight into AuntElizabeth’s angry face with the steady, unblinking gaze which Aunt Ruthcalled unchildlike. “You see, it’s this way. It is _in_ me. I can’thelp it. And Father said I was _always_ to keep on writing. He said Iwould be famous some day. Wouldn’t you like to have a famous niece,Aunt Elizabeth?”
“I am not going to argue the matter,” said Aunt Elizabeth.
“I’m not arguing--only explaining.” Emily was exasperatinglyrespectful. “I just want you to understand how it is that I _have_to go on writing stories, even though I am so very sorry you don’tapprove.”
“If you don’t give up this--this worse than nonsense, Emily,I’ll--I’ll--”
Aunt Elizabeth stopped, not knowing what to say she would do. Emilywas too big now to be slapped or shut up; and it was no use to say,as she was tempted to, “I’ll send you away from New Moon,” becauseElizabeth Murray knew perfectly well she would not send Emily away fromNew Moon--_could_ not send her away, indeed, though this knowledgewas as yet only in her feelings and had not been translated into herintellect. She only felt that she was helpless and it angered her;but Emily was mistress of the situation and calmly went on writingstories. If Aunt Elizabeth had asked her to give up crocheting lace ormaking molasses taffy, or eating Aunt Laura’s delicious drop cookies,Emily would have done so wholly and cheerfully, though she lovedthese things. But to give up writing stories--why, Aunt Elizabethmight as well have asked her to give up breathing. _Why_ couldn’t sheunderstand? It seemed so simple and indisputable to Emily.
“Teddy can’t help making pictures and Ilse can’t help reciting and Ican’t help writing. _Don’t_ you see, Aunt Elizabeth?”
“I see that you are an ungrateful and disobedient child,” said AuntElizabeth.
This hurt Emily horribly, but she could not give in; and therecontinued to be a sense of soreness and disapproval between her andAunt Elizabeth in all the little details of daily life that poisonedexistence more or less for the child, who was so keenly sensitive toher environment and to the feelings with which her kindred regardedher. Emily felt it all the time--except when she was writing herstories. _Then_ she forgot everything, roaming in some enchantedcountry between the sun and moon, where she saw wonderful beings whomshe tried to describe and wonderful deeds which she tried to record,coming back to the candle-lit kitchen with a somewhat dazed sense ofhaving been years in No-Man’s Land.
She did not even have Aunt Laura to back her up in the matter. AuntLaura thought Emily ought to yield in such an unimportant matter andplease Aunt Elizabeth.
“But it’s not unimportant,” said Emily despairingly. “It’s the mostimportant thing in the world to me, Aunt Laura. Oh, I thought _you_would understand.”
“I understand that you like to do it, dear, and I think it’s a harmlessenough amusement. But it seems to annoy Elizabeth some way and I dothink you might give it up on that account. It is not as if it wasanything that mattered much--it _is_ really a waste of time.”
“No--no,” said distressed Emily. “Why, some day, Aunt Laura, I’llwrite real books--and make lots of money,” she added, sensing that thebusinesslike Murrays measured the nature of most things on a cash basis.
Aunt Laura smiled indulgently.
“I’m afraid you’ll never grow rich that way, dear. It would be wiser toemploy your time preparing yourself for some useful work.”
It was maddening to be condescended to like this--maddening that nobodycould see that she _had_ to write--maddening to have Aunt Laura sosweet and loving and stupid about it.
“Oh,” thought Emily bitterly, “if that hateful _Enterprise_ editor hadprinted my piece they’d have believed _then_.”
“At any rate,” advised Aunt Laura, “don’t let Elizabeth _see_ youwriting them.”
But somehow Emily could not take this prudent advice. There _had_been occasions when she had connived with Aunt Laura to hoodwinkAunt Elizabeth on some little matter, but she found she could not doit in this. _This_ had to be open and above-board. She _must_ writestories--and Aunt Elizabeth _must_ know it--that was the way it had tobe. She could not be false to herself in this--she could not _pretend_to be false.
She wrote her father all about it--poured out her bitterness andperplexity to him in what, though she did not suspect it at the time,was the last letter she was to write him. There was a large bundleof letters by now on the old sofa shelf in the garret--for Emily hadwritten many letters to her father besides those which have beenchronicled in this history. There were a great many paragraphs aboutAunt Elizabeth in them, most of them very uncomplimentary and someof them, as Emily herself would have owned when her first bitternesswas past, overdrawn and exaggerated. They had been written in momentswhen her hurt and angry soul demanded some outlet for its emotion andbarbed her pen with venom. Emily was mistress of a subtly maliciousstyle when she chose to be. After she had written them the hurt hadceased and she thought no more about them. But they remained.
And one spring day, Aunt Elizabeth, housecleaning in the garret whileEmily played happily with Teddy at the Tansy Patch, found the bundle ofletters on the sofa shelf, sat down, and read them all.
Elizabeth Murray would never have read any writing belongingto a grown person. But it never occurred to her that there wasanything dishonourable in reading the letters wherein Emily, lonelyand--sometimes--misunderstood, had poured out her heart to the fathershe had loved and been loved by, so passionately and understandingly.Aunt Elizabeth thought she had a right to know everything that thispensioner on her bounty did, said, or thought. She read the lettersand she found out what Emily thought of her--of her, Elizabeth Murray,autocrat unchallenged, to whom no one had ever dared to say anythinguncomplimentary. Such an experience is no pleasanter at sixty thanat sixteen. As Elizabeth Murray folded up the last letter her handstrembled--with anger, and something underneath it that was not anger.
“Emily, your Aunt Elizabeth wants to see you in the parlour,” saidAunt Laura, when Emily returned from the Tansy Patch, driven home bythe thin grey rain that had begun to drift over the greening fields.Her tone--her sorrowful look--warned Emily that mischief was in thewind. Emily had no idea what mischief--she could not recall anythingshe had done recently that should bring her up before the tribunalAunt Elizabeth occasionally held in the parlour. It must be seriouswhen it was in the parlour. For reasons best known to herself AuntElizabeth held super-serious interviews like this in the parlour.Possibly it was because she felt obscurely that the photographs ofthe Murrays on the walls gave her a backing she needed when dealingwith this hop-out-of-kin; for the same reason Emily detested a trial inthe parlour. She always felt on such occasions like a very small mousesurrounded by a circle of grim cats.
Emily skipped across the big hall, pausing, in spite of her alarm, toglance at the charming red world through the crimson glass; then pushedopen the parlour door. The room was dim, for only one of the slatblinds was partially raised. Aunt Elizabeth was sitting bolt upright inGrandfather Murray’s black horsehair-chair. Emily looked at her stern,angry face first--and then at her lap.
Emily understood.
The first thing she did was to retrieve her precious letters. With thequickness of light she sprang to Aunt Elizabeth, snatched up the bundleand retreated to the door; there she faced Aunt Elizabeth, her faceblazing with indignation and outrage. Sacrilege had been committed--themost sacred shrine of her soul had been profaned.
“How dare you?” she said. “How dare you touch _my private papers_, AuntElizabeth?”
Aunt Elizabeth had not expected _this_. She had looked forconfusion--dismay--shame--fear--for anything but this righteousindignation, as if _she_, forsooth, were the guilty one. She rose.
“Give me those letters, Emily.”
“No, I will not,” said Emily, white with anger, as she clasped herhands around the bundle. “They are mine and Father’s--not yours. Youhad no right to touch them. I will _never_ forgive you!”
This was turning the tables with a vengeance. Aunt Elizabeth was sodumfounded that she hardly knew what to say or do. Worst of all, a mostunpleasant doubt of her own conduct suddenly assailed her--driven homeperhaps by the intensity and earnestness of Emily’s accusation. Forthe first time in her life it occurred to Elizabeth Murray to wonder ifshe had done rightly. For the first time in her life she felt ashamed;and the shame made her furious. It was intolerable that _she_ should bemade to feel ashamed.
For the moment they faced each other, not as aunt and niece, not aschild and adult, but as two human beings each with hatred for the otherin her heart--Elizabeth Murray, tall and austere and thin-lipped; EmilyStarr, white of face, her eyes pools of black flame, her trembling armshugging her letters.
“So _this_ is your gratitude,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “You were apenniless orphan--I took you to my home--I have given you shelter andfood and education and kindness--and _this_ is my thanks.”
As yet Emily’s tempest of anger and resentment prevented her fromfeeling the sting of this.
“You did not _want_ to take me,” she said. “You made me draw lots andyou took me because the lot fell to you. You knew some of you had totake me because you were the proud Murrays and couldn’t let a relationgo to an orphan asylum. Aunt Laura loves me now but you don’t. So whyshould I love you?”
“Ungrateful, thankless child!”
“I’m _not_ thankless. I’ve tried to be good--I’ve tried to obey you andplease you--I do all the chores I can to help pay for my keep. And youhad _no business_ to read my letters to Father.”
“They are disgraceful letters--and must be destroyed,” said AuntElizabeth.
“No,” Emily clasped them tighter. “I’d sooner burn myself. You shallnot have them, Aunt Elizabeth.”
She felt her brows drawing together--she felt the Murray look on herface--she knew she was conquering.
Elizabeth Murray turned paler, if that were possible. There weretimes when she could give the Murray look herself; it was not thatwhich dismayed her--it was the uncanny something which seemed topeer out behind the Murray look that always broke her will. Shetrembled--faltered--yielded.
“Keep your letters,” she said bitterly, “and scorn the old woman whoopened her home to you.”
She went out of the parlour. Emily was left mistress of the field. Andall at once her victory turned to dust and ashes in her mouth.
She went up to her own room, hid her letters in the cupboard over themantel, and then crept up on her bed, huddling down in a little heapwith her face buried in her pillow. She was still sore with a sense ofoutrage--but underneath another pain was beginning to ache terribly.
Something in her was hurt because she had hurt Aunt Elizabeth--forshe felt that Aunt Elizabeth, under all her anger, was _hurt_. Thissurprised Emily. She would have expected Aunt Elizabeth to be angry, ofcourse, but she would never have supposed it would affect her in anyother way. Yet she had seen something in Aunt Elizabeth’s eyes when shehad flung that last stinging sentence at her--something that spoke ofbitter hurt.
“Oh! Oh!” gasped Emily. She began to cry chokingly into her pillow. Shewas so wretched that she could not get out of herself and watch herown suffering with a sort of enjoyment in its drama--set her mind toanalyse her feelings--and when Emily was as wretched as that she wasvery wretched indeed and wholly comfortless. Aunt Elizabeth would notkeep her at New Moon after a poisonous quarrel like this. She wouldsend her away, of course. Emily believed this. Nothing was too horribleto believe just then. How could she live away from dear New Moon?
“And I may have to live eighty years,” Emily moaned.
But worse even than this was the remembrance of that look in AuntElizabeth’s eyes.
Her own sense of outrage and sacrilege ebbed away under theremembrance. She thought of all the things she had written her fatherabout Aunt Elizabeth--sharp, bitter things, some of them just, some ofthem unjust. She began to feel that she should not have written them.It was true enough that Aunt Elizabeth had not loved her--had notwanted to take her to New Moon. But she _had_ taken her and though ithad been done in duty, not in love, the fact remained. It was no usefor her to tell herself that it wasn’t as if the letters were writtento any one living, to be seen and read by others. While she was underAunt Elizabeth’s roof--while she owed the food she ate and the clothesshe wore to Aunt Elizabeth--she should not say, even to her father,harsh things of her. A Starr should not have done it.
“I must go and ask Aunt Elizabeth to forgive me,” thought Emily atlast, all the passion gone out of her and only regret and repentanceleft. “I suppose she never will--she’ll hate me always now. But I mustgo.”
She turned herself about--and then the door opened and Aunt Elizabethentered. She came across the room and stood at the side of the bed,looking down at the grieved little face on the pillow--a face that inthe dim, rainy twilight, with its tear-stains and black shadowed eyes,looked strangely mature and chiseled.
Elizabeth Murray was still austere and cold. Her voice sounded stern;but she said an amazing thing.
“Emily, I had no right to read your letters. I admit I was wrong. Willyou forgive me?”
“Oh!” The word was almost a cry. Aunt Elizabeth had at last discernedthe way to conquer Emily. The latter lifted herself up, flung her armsabout Aunt Elizabeth, and said chokingly,
“Oh--Aunt Elizabeth--I’m sorry--I’m sorry--I shouldn’t have writtenthose things--but I wrote them when I was vexed--and I didn’t meanthem _all_--truly, I didn’t mean the worst of them. Oh, you’ll believe_that_, won’t you, Aunt Elizabeth?”
“I’d like to believe it, Emily.” An odd quiver passed through thetall, rigid form. “I--don’t like to think you--_hate_ me--my sister’schild--little Juliet’s child.”
“I don’t--oh, I don’t,” sobbed Emily. “And I’ll _love_ you, AuntElizabeth, if you’ll let me--if you _want_ me to. I didn’t think youcared. _Dear_ Aunt Elizabeth.”
Emily gave Aunt Elizabeth a fierce hug and a passionate kiss on thewhite, fine-wrinkled cheek. Aunt Elizabeth kissed her gravely on thebrow in return and then said, as if closing the door on the wholeincident,
“You’d better wash your face and come down to supper.”
But there was yet something to be cleared up.
“Aunt Elizabeth,” whispered Emily. “I _can’t_ burn those letters, youknow--they belong to Father. But I’ll tell you what I will do. I’ll goover them all and put a star by anything I said about you and then I’lladd an explanatory footnote saying that I was mistaken.”
Emily spent her spare time for several days putting in her “explanatoryfootnotes,” and then her conscience had rest. But when she again triedto write a letter to her father she found that it no longer meantanything to her. The sense of reality--nearness--of close communion hadgone. Perhaps she had been outgrowing it gradually, as childhood beganto merge into girlhood--perhaps the bitter scene with Aunt Elizabethhad only shaken into dust something out of which the spirit had alreadydeparted. But, whatever the explanation, it was not possible to writesuch letters any more. She missed them terribly but she could not goback to them. A certain door of life was shut behind her and could notbe re-opened.



CHAPTER XXX
WHEN THE CURTAIN LIFTED

It would be pleasant to be able to record that after the reconciliationin the lookout Emily and Aunt Elizabeth lived in entire amity andharmony. But the truth was that things went on pretty much the same asbefore. Emily went softly, and tried to mingle serpent’s wisdom anddove’s harmlessness in practical proportions, but their points of viewwere so different that there were bound to be clashes; they did notspeak the same language, so there was bound to be misunderstanding.
And yet there was a difference--a very vital difference. ElizabethMurray had learned an important lesson--that there was not one law offairness for children and another for grown-ups. She continued to beas autocratic as ever--but she did not do or say to Emily anything shewould not have done or said to Laura had occasion called for it.
Emily, on her side, had discovered the fact that, under all her surfacecoldness and sternness, Aunt Elizabeth really had an affection for her;and it was wonderful what a difference this made. It took the stingout of Aunt Elizabeth’s “ways” and words and healed entirely a certainlittle half-conscious sore spot that had been in Emily’s heart eversince the incident of the drawn slips at Maywood.
“I don’t believe I’m a duty to Aunt Elizabeth any more,” she thoughtexultantly.
Emily grew rapidly that summer in body, mind and soul. Life wasdelightful, growing richer every hour, like an unfolding rose. Forms ofbeauty filled her imagination and were transferred as best she couldto paper, though they were never so lovely there, and Emily had theheartbreaking moments of the true artist who discovers that
    “Never on painter’s canvas lives    The charm of his fancy’s dream.”
Much of her “old stuff” she burned; even the _Child of the Sea_ wasreduced to ashes. But the little pile of manuscripts in the mantelcupboard of the lookout was growing steadily larger. Emily kept herscribblings there now; the sofa shelf in the garret was desecrated;and, besides, she felt somehow that Aunt Elizabeth would never meddlewith her “private papers” again, no matter where they were kept. Shedid not go now to the garret to read or write or dream; her own dearlookout was the best place for that. She loved that quaint, little oldroom intensely; it was almost like a living thing to her--a sharer ingladness--a comforter in sorrow.
Ilse was growing, too, blossoming out into strange beauty andbrilliance, knowing no law but her own pleasure, recognizing noauthority but her own whim. Aunt Laura worried over her.
“She will be a woman so soon--and _who_ will look after her? Allanwon’t.”
“I’ve no patience with Allan,” said Aunt Elizabeth grimly. “He isalways ready to hector and advise other people. He’d better look athome. He’ll come over here and order me to do this or that, or _not_ todo it, for Emily; but if I say one word to him about Ilse he blows theroof off. The idea of a man turning against his daughter and neglectingher as he has neglected Ilse simply because her mother wasn’t all sheought to be--as if the poor child was to blame for _that_.”
“S--s--sh,” said Aunt Laura, as Emily crossed the sitting-room on herway upstairs.
Emily smiled sadly to herself. Aunt Laura needn’t be “s-s-sh’ing.”There was nothing left for her to find out about Ilse’smother--nothing, except the most important thing of all, which neithershe nor anybody else living knew. For Emily had never surrendered herconviction that the whole truth about Beatrice Burnley was not known.She often worried about it when she lay curled up in her black walnutbed o’nights, listening to the moan of the gulf and the Wind Womansinging in the trees, and drifted into sleep wishing intensely that shecould solve the dark old mystery and dissolve its legend of shame andbitterness.
Emily went rather languidly upstairs to the lookout. She meant towrite some more of her story, _The Ghost of the Well_, wherein shewas weaving the old legend of the well in the Lee field; but somehowinterest was lacking; she put the manuscript back into the mantelcupboard; she read over a letter from Dean Priest which had come thatday, one of his fat, jolly, whimsical, delightful letters wherein hehad told her that he was coming to stay a month with his sister atBlair Water. She wondered why this announcement did not excite hermore. She was tired--her head was aching. Emily couldn’t remember everhaving had a headache before. Since she could not write she decided tolie down and be _Lady Trevanion_ for awhile. Emily was _Lady Trevanion_very often that summer, in one of the dream lives she had begun tobuild up for herself. _Lady Trevanion_ was the wife of an English earland, besides being a famous novelist, was a member of the British Houseof Commons--where she always appeared in black velvet with a statelycoronet of pearls on her dark hair. She was the only woman in the Houseand, as this was before the days of the suffragettes, she had to enduremany sneers and innuendoes and insults from the ungallant males aroundher. Emily’s favourite dream scene was where she rose to make her firstspeech--a wonderfully thrilling event. As Emily found it difficultto do justice to the scene in any ideas of her own, she always fellback on “Pitt’s reply to Walpole,” which she had found in her _RoyalReader_, and declaimed it, with suitable variations. The insolentspeaker who had provoked _Lady Trevanion_ into speech had sneered ather as a _woman_, and _Lady Trevanion_, a magnificent creature in hervelvet and pearls, rose to her feet, amid hushed and dramatic silence,and said,
“The atrocious crime of being a _woman_ which the honourable memberhas, with such spirit and decency, charged upon me, I shall attemptneither to palliate nor deny, but shall content myself with wishingthat I may be one of those whose follies cease with their _sex_ and_not_ one of that number who are ignorant in spite of _manhood_ andexperience.”
(Here she was always interrupted by thunders of applause.)
But the savour was entirely lacking in this scene today and by thetime Emily had reached the line, “But _womanhood_, Sir, is not my onlycrime”--she gave up in disgust and fell to worrying over Ilse’s motheragain, mixed up with some uneasy speculations regarding the climax ofher story about the ghost of the well, mingled with her unpleasantphysical sensations.
Her eyes hurt her when she moved them. She was chilly, although theJuly day was hot. She was still lying there when Aunt Elizabeth came upto ask why she hadn’t gone to bring the cows home from the pasture.
“I--I didn’t know it was so late,” said Emily confusedly. “I--my headaches, Aunt Elizabeth.”
Aunt Elizabeth rolled up the white cotton blind and looked at Emily.She noted her flushed face--she felt her pulse. Then she bade hershortly to stay where she was, went down, and sent Perry for Dr.Burnley.
“Probably she’s got the measles,” said the doctor as gruffly as usual.Emily was not yet sick enough to be gentle over. “There’s an outbreakof them at Derry Pond. Has she had any chance to catch them?”
“Jimmy Joe Belle’s two children were here one afternoon about ten daysago. She played with them--she’s always playing round with peopleshe’s no business to associate with. I haven’t heard that they were orhave been sick though.”
Jimmy Joe Belle, when asked plainly, confessed that his “young ones”had come out with measles the very day after they had been at New Moon.There was therefore not much doubt as to Emily’s malady.
“It’s a bad kind of measles apparently,” the doctor said. “Quite anumber of the Derry Pond children have died of it. Mostly Frenchthough--the kids would be out of bed when they had no business to beand caught cold. I don’t think you need worry about Emily. She might aswell have measles and be done with it. Keep her warm and keep the roomdark. I’ll run over in the morning.”
For three or four days nobody was much alarmed. Measles was a diseaseeverybody had to have. Aunt Elizabeth looked after Emily well and slepton a sofa which had been moved into the lookout. She even left thewindow open at night. In spite of this--perhaps Aunt Elizabeth thoughtbecause of it--Emily grew steadily sicker, and on the fifth day a sharpchange for the worse took place. Her fever went up rapidly, deliriumset in; Dr. Burnley came, looked anxious, scowled, changed the medicine.
“I’m sent for to a bad case of pneumonia at White Cross,” he said, “andI have to go to Charlottetown in the morning to be present at Mrs.Jackwell’s operation. I promised her I would go. I’ll be back in theevening. Emily is very restless--that high-strung system of hers isevidently very sensitive to fever. What’s that nonsense she’s talkingabout the Wind Woman?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” said Aunt Elizabeth worriedly. “She’s alwaystalking nonsense like that, even when she’s well. Allan, tell meplainly--is there any danger?”
“There’s always danger in this type of measles. I don’t like thesesymptoms--the eruption should be out by now and there’s no sign ofit. Her fever is very high--but I don’t think we need be alarmedyet. If I thought otherwise I wouldn’t go to town. Keep her as quietas possible--humour her whims if you can--I don’t like that mentaldisturbance. She looks terribly distressed--seems to be worrying oversomething. Has she had anything on her mind of late?”
“Not that I know of,” said Aunt Elizabeth. She had a sudden bitterrealisation that she really did not know much about the child’s mind.Emily would never have come to her with any of her little troubles andworries.
“Emily, what is bothering you?” asked Dr. Burnley softly--very softly.He took the hot, tossing, little hand gently, oh, so gently, in his bigone.
Emily looked up with wild, fever-bright eyes.
“She couldn’t have done it--she _couldn’t_ have done it.”
“Of course she couldn’t,” said the doctor cheerily. “Don’t worry--shedidn’t do it.”
His eyes telegraphed, “What does she mean?” to Elizabeth, but Elizabethshook her head.
“Who are you talking about--dear?” she asked Emily. It was the firsttime she had called Emily “dear.”
But Emily was off on another tack. The well in Mr. Lee’s field wasopen, she declared. Someone would be sure to fall into it. Why didn’tMr. Lee shut it up? Dr. Burnley left Aunt Elizabeth trying to reassureEmily on that point and hurried away to White Cross.
At the door he nearly fell over Perry who was curled up on thesandstone slab, hugging his sunburned legs desperately. “How is Emily?”he demanded, grasping the skirt of the doctor’s coat.
“Don’t bother me--I’m in a hurry,” growled the doctor.
“You tell me how Emily is or I’ll hang on to your coat till the seamsgo,” said Perry stubbornly. “I can’t get one word of sense out of themold maids. _You_ tell me.”
“She’s a sick child but I’m not seriously alarmed about her yet.” Thedoctor gave his coat another tug--but Perry held on for a last word.
“You’ve _got_ to cure her,” he said. “If anything happens to Emily I’lldrown myself in the pond--mind that.”
He let go so suddenly that Dr. Burnley nearly went headlong on theground. Then Perry curled up on the doorstep again. He watched thereuntil Laura and Cousin Jimmy had gone to bed and then he sneakedthrough the house and sat on the stairs, where he could hear any soundin Emily’s room. He sat there all night, with his fists clenched, as ifkeeping guard against an unseen foe.
Elizabeth Murray watched by Emily until two o’clock, and then Lauratook her place.
“She has raved a great deal,” said Aunt Elizabeth. “I wish I knew whatis worrying her--there _is_ something, I feel sure. It isn’t all meredelirium. She keeps repeating ‘She couldn’t have done it’ in suchimploring tones. I wonder oh, Laura, you remember the time I read herletters? Do you think she means me?”
Laura shook her head. She had never seen Elizabeth so moved.
“If the child--doesn’t get--better--” said Aunt Elizabeth. She said nomore but went quickly out of the room.
Laura sat down by the bed. She was pale and drawn with her own worryand fatigue--for she had not been able to sleep. She loved Emily asher own child and the awful dread that had possessed her heart wouldnot lift for an instant. She sat there and prayed mutely. Emily fellinto a troubled slumber which lasted until the grey dawn crept intothe lookout. Then she opened her eyes and looked at Aunt Laura--lookedthrough her--looked beyond her.
“I see her coming over the fields,” she said in a high, clear voice.“She is coming so gladly--she is singing--she is thinking of herbaby--oh, keep her back--keep her back--she doesn’t see the well--it’sso dark she doesn’t see it--oh, she’s gone into it--she’s gone into it!”
Emily’s voice rose in a piercing shriek which penetrated to AuntElizabeth’s room and brought her flying across the hall in her flannelnightgown.
“What is wrong, Laura?” she gasped.
Laura was trying to soothe Emily, who was struggling to sit up in bed.Her cheeks were crimson and her eyes had still the same far, wild look.
“Emily--Emily, darling, you’ve just had a bad dream. The old Lee wellisn’t open--nobody has fallen into it.”
“Yes, somebody has,” said Emily shrilly. “_She_ has--I saw her--I sawher--with the ace of hearts on her forehead. Do you think I don’t knowher?”
She fell back on her pillow, moaned, and tossed the hands which LauraMurray had loosened in her surprise.
The two ladies of New Moon looked at each other across her bed indismay--and something like terror.
“Who did you see, Emily?” asked Aunt Elizabeth.
“Ilse’s mother--of course. I always knew she didn’t do that dreadfulthing. She fell into the old well--she’s there now--go--go and get herout, Aunt Laura. _Please._”
“Yes--yes, of course we’ll get her out, darling,” said Aunt Laura,soothingly.
Emily sat up in bed and looked at Aunt Laura again. This time she didnot look through her--she looked into her. Laura Murray felt thatthose burning eyes read her soul.
“You are lying to me,” cried Emily. “You don’t mean to try to gether out. You are only saying it to put me off. Aunt Elizabeth,” shesuddenly turned and caught Aunt Elizabeth’s hand, “you’ll do it for me,won’t you? You’ll go and get her out of the old well, won’t you?”
Elizabeth remembered that Dr. Burnley had said that Emily’s whims mustbe humoured. She was terrified by the child’s condition.
“Yes, I’ll get her out if she is in there,” she said. Emily releasedher hand and sank down. The wild glare left her eyes. A great suddencalm fell over her anguished little face.
“I know _you’ll_ keep your word,” she said. “You are very hard--but_you_ never lie, Aunt Elizabeth.”
Elizabeth Murray went back to her own room and dressed herself with hershaking fingers. A little later, when Emily had fallen into a quietsleep, Laura went down stairs and heard Elizabeth giving Cousin Jimmysome orders in the kitchen.
“Elizabeth, you don’t really mean to have that old well searched?”
“I do,” said Elizabeth resolutely. “I know it’s nonsense as well asyou do. But I had to promise it to quiet her down--and I’ll keep mypromise. You heard what she said--she believed I wouldn’t lie to her.Nor will I. Jimmy, you will go over to James Lee’s after breakfast andask him to come here.”
“How has she heard the story?” said Laura.
“I don’t know--oh, some one has told her, of course--perhaps that olddemon of a Nancy Priest. It doesn’t matter who. She _has_ heard itand the thing is to keep her quiet. It isn’t so much of a job to putladders in the well and get some one to go down it. The thing thatmatters is the absurdity of it.”
“We’ll be laughed at for a pair of fools,” protested Laura, whose shareof Murray pride was in hot revolt. “And besides, it will open up allthe old scandal again.”
“No matter. I’ll keep my word to the child,” said Elizabeth stubbornly.
       *       *       *       *       *
Allan Burnley came to New Moon at sunset, on his way home from town. Hewas tired, for he had been going night and day for over a week; he wasmore worried than he had admitted over Emily; he looked old and ratherdesolate as he stepped into the New Moon kitchen.
Only Cousin Jimmy was there. Cousin Jimmy did not seem to have much todo, although it was a good hay-day and Jimmy Joe Belle and Perry werehauling in the great fragrant, sun-dried loads. He sat by the westernwindow with a strange expression on his face.
“Hello, Jimmy, where are the girls? And how is Emily?”
“Emily is better,” said Cousin Jimmy. “The rash is out and her feverhas gone down. I think she’s asleep.”
“Good. We couldn’t afford to lose that little girl, could we, Jimmy?”
“No,” said Jimmy. But he did not seem to want to talk about it. “Lauraand Elizabeth are in the sitting-room. They want to see you.” He pauseda minute and then added in an eerie way, “There is nothing hidden thatshall not be revealed.”
It occurred to Allan Burnley that Jimmy was acting mysteriously. Andif Laura and Elizabeth wanted to see him why didn’t they come out? Itwasn’t like them to stand on ceremony in this fashion. He pushed openthe sitting-room door impatiently.
Laura Murray was sitting on the sofa, leaning her head on its arm. Hecould not see her face but he felt that she was crying. Elizabethwas sitting bolt upright on a chair. She wore her second-best blacksilk and her second-best lace cap. And she, too, had been crying. Dr.Burnley never attached much importance to Laura’s tears, easy as thoseof most women, but that Elizabeth Murray should cry--had he ever seenher cry before?
The thought of Ilse flashed into his mind--his little neglecteddaughter. Had anything happened to Ilse?
In one dreadful moment Allan Burnley paid the price of his treatment ofhis child.
“What is wrong?” he exclaimed in his gruffest manner.
“Oh, Allan,” said Elizabeth Murray. “God forgive us--God forgive usall!”
“It--is--Ilse,” said Dr. Burnley, dully.
“No--no--not Ilse.”
Then she told him--she told him what had been found at the bottom ofthe old Lee well--she told him what had been the real fate of thelovely, laughing young wife whose name for twelve bitter years hadnever crossed his lips.
       *       *       *       *       *
It was not until the next evening that Emily saw the doctor. She waslying in bed, weak and limp, red as a beet with the measles rash, butquite herself again. Allan Burnley stood by the bed and looked down ather.
“Emily--dear little child--do you know what you have done for me? Godknows how you did it.”
“I thought you didn’t believe in God,” said Emily, wonderingly.
“You have given me back my faith in Him, Emily.”
“Why, what have I done?”
Dr. Burnley saw that she had no remembrance of her delirium. Laura hadtold him that she had slept long and soundly after Elizabeth’s promiseand had awakened with fever gone and the eruption fast coming out. Shehad asked nothing and they had said nothing.
“When you are better we will tell you all,” he said, smiling down ather. There was something very sorrowful in the smile--and yet somethingvery sweet.
“He is smiling with his eyes as well as his mouth now,” thought Emily.
“How--how did she know?” whispered Laura Murray to him when he wentdown. “I--can’t understand it, Allan.”
“Nor I. These things are beyond us, Laura,” he answered gravely. “Ionly know this child has given Beatrice back to me, stainless andbeloved. It can be explained rationally enough perhaps. Emily hasevidently been told about Beatrice and worried over it--her repeated‘she couldn’t have done it’ shows that. And the tales of the old Leewell naturally made a deep impression on the mind of a sensitive childkeenly alive to dramatic values. In her delirium she mixed this all upwith the well-known fact of Jimmy’s tumble into the New Moon well--andthe rest was coincidence. I would have explained it all so myselfonce--but now--now, Laura, I only say humbly, ‘A little child shalllead them.’”
“Our stepmother’s mother was a Highland Scotchwoman. They said she hadthe second sight,” said Elizabeth. “I never believed in it--before.”
The excitement of Blair Water had died away before Emily was deemedstrong enough to hear the story. That which had been found in the oldLee well had been buried in the Mitchell plot at Shrewsbury and awhite marble shaft, “Sacred to the memory of Beatrice Burnley, belovedwife of Allan Burnley,” had been erected. The sensation caused by Dr.Burnley’s presence every Sunday in the old Burnley pew had died away.On the first evening that Emily was allowed to sit up Aunt Laura toldher the whole story. Her manner of telling stripped it forever of thetaint and innuendo left by Aunt Nancy.
“I _knew_ Ilse’s mother couldn’t have done it,” said Emily triumphantly.
“We blame ourselves now for our lack of faith,” said Aunt Laura. “Weshould have known too--but it _did_ seem black against her at the time,Emily. She was a bright, beautiful, merry creature--we thought herclose friendship with her cousin natural and harmless. We know now itwas so--but all these years since her disappearance we have believeddifferently. Mr. James Lee remembers clearly that the well was openthe night of Beatrice’s disappearance. His hired man had taken theold rotten planks off it that evening, intending to put the new oneson at once. Then Robert Greerson’s house caught fire and he ran witheverybody else to help save it. By the time it was out it was too darkto finish with the well, and the man said nothing about it until themorning. Mr. Lee was angry with him--he said it was a scandalous thingto leave a well uncovered like that. He went right down and put thenew planks in place himself. He did not look down in the well--had helooked he could have seen nothing, for the ferns growing out from thesides screened the depths. It was just after harvest. No one was inthe field again before the next spring. He never connected Beatrice’sdisappearance with the open well--he wonders now that he didn’t. Butyou see--dear--there had been much malicious gossip--and Beatrice was_known_ to have gone on board _The Lady of Winds_. It was taken forgranted she never came off again. But she did--and went to her deathin the old Lee field. It was a dreadful ending to her bright younglife--but not so dreadful, after all, as what we believed. For twelveyears we have wronged the dead. But--Emily--how could you _know_?”
“I--don’t--know. When the doctor came in that day I couldn’t rememberanything--but now it seems to me that I remember something--just asif I’d dreamed it--of _seeing_ Ilse’s mother coming over the fields,singing. It was dark--and yet I could see the ace of hearts--oh, Aunty,I don’t know--I don’t like to think of it, some way.”
“We won’t talk of it again,” said Aunt Laura gently. “It is one of thethings best not talked of--one of God’s secrets.”
“And Ilse--does her father love her now?” asked Emily eagerly.
“Love her! He can’t love her enough. It seems as if he were pouring outon her at once all the shut-up love of those twelve years.”
“He’ll likely spoil her now as much with indulgence as he did beforewith neglect,” said Elizabeth, coming in with Emily’s supper in time tohear Laura’s reply.
“It will take a lot of love to spoil Ilse,” laughed Laura. “She’sdrinking it up like a thirsty sponge. And she loves him wildly inreturn. There isn’t a trace of grudge in her over his long neglect.”
“All the same,” said Elizabeth grimly, tucking pillows behind Emily’sback with a very gentle hand, oddly in contrast with her severeexpression, “he won’t get off so easily. Ilse has run wild for twelveyears. He won’t find it so easy to make her behave properly now--if heever does.”
“Love will do wonders,” said Aunt Laura softly. “Of course, Ilse isdying to come and see you, Emily. But she must wait until there is nodanger of infection. I told her she might write--but when she found Iwould have to read it because of your eyes she said she’d wait till youcould read it yourself. Evidently”--Laura laughed again--“evidentlyIlse has much of importance to tell you.”
“I didn’t know anybody could be as happy as I am now,” said Emily.“And oh, Aunt Elizabeth, it is _so_ nice to feel hungry again and tohave something to _chew_.”



CHAPTER XXXI
EMILY’S GREAT MOMENT

Emily’s convalescence was rather slow. Physically she recovered withnormal celerity but a certain spiritual and emotional languor persistedfor a time. One cannot go down to the depths of hidden things andescape the penalty. Aunt Elizabeth said she “moped.” But Emily wastoo happy and contented to mope. It was just that life seemed to havelost its savour for a time, as if some spring of vital energy had beendrained out of it and refilled slowly.
She had, just then, no one to play with. Perry, Ilse and Teddy hadall come down with measles the same day. Mrs. Kent at first declaredbitterly that Teddy had caught them at New Moon, but all three hadcontracted them at a Sunday School picnic where Derry Pond children hadbeen. That picnic infected all Blair Water. There was a perfect orgy ofmeasles. Teddy and Ilse were only moderately ill, but Perry, who hadinsisted on going home to Aunt Tom at the first symptoms, nearly died.Emily was not allowed to know his danger until it had passed, lestit worry her too much. Even Aunt Elizabeth worried over it. She wassurprised to discover how much they missed Perry round the place.
It was fortunate for Emily that Dean Priest was in Blair Water duringthis forlorn time. His companionship was just what she needed andhelped her wonderfully on the road to complete recovery. They went forlong walks together all over Blair Water, with Tweed woofing aroundthem, and explored places and roads Emily had never seen before. Theywatched a young moon grow old, night by night; they talked in dimscented chambers of twilight over long red roads of mystery; theyfollowed the lure of hill winds; they saw the stars rise and Dean toldher all about them--the great constellations of the old myths. Itwas a wonderful month; but on the first day of Teddy’s convalescenceEmily was off to the Tansy Patch for the afternoon and Jarback Priestwalked--if he walked at all--alone.
Aunt Elizabeth was extremely polite to him, though she did not like thePriests of Priest Pond overmuch, and never felt quite comfortable underthe mocking gleam of “Jarback’s” green eyes and the faint derision ofhis smile, which seemed to make Murray pride and Murray traditions seemmuch less important than they really were.
“He has the Priest flavour,” she told Laura, “though it isn’t as strongin him as in most of them. And he’s certainly helping Emily--she hasbegun to spunk up since he came.”
Emily continued to “spunk up” and by September, when the measlesepidemic was spent and Dean Priest had gone on one of his sudden swoopsover to Europe for the autumn, she was ready for school again--alittle taller, a little thinner, a little less childlike, with greatgrey shadowy eyes that had looked into death and read the riddle of aburied thing, and henceforth would hold in them some haunting, elusiveremembrance of that world behind the veil. Dean Priest had seen it--Mr.Carpenter saw it when she smiled at him across her desk at school.
“She’s left the childhood of her soul behind, though she is still achild in body,” he muttered.
One afternoon amid the golden days and hazes of October he asked hergruffly to let him see some of her verses.
“I never meant to encourage you in it,” he said. “I don’t mean itnow. Probably you can’t write a line of real poetry and never will.But let me see your stuff. If it’s hopelessly bad I’ll tell you so. Iwon’t have you wasting years striving for the unattainable--at leastI won’t have it on my conscience if you do. If there’s any promise init, I’ll tell you so just as honestly. And bring some of your stories,too--_they’re_ trash yet, that’s certain, but I’ll see if they showjust and sufficient cause for going on.”
Emily spent a very solemn hour that evening, weighing, choosing,rejecting. To the little bundle of verse she added one of herJimmy-books which contained, as she thought, her best stories. She wentto school next day, so secret and mysterious that Ilse took offense,started in to call her names--and then stopped. Ilse had promised herfather that she would try to break herself of the habit of callingnames. She was making fairly good headway and her conversation, if lessvivid, was beginning to approximate to New Moon standards.
Emily made a sad mess of her lessons that day. She was nervous andfrightened. She had a tremendous respect for Mr. Carpenter’s opinion.Father Cassidy had told her to keep on--Dean Priest had told her thatsome day she might really write--but perhaps they were only tryingto be encouraging because they liked her and didn’t want to hurt herfeelings. Emily knew Mr. Carpenter would not do this. No matter if hedid like her he would nip her aspirations mercilessly if he thoughtthe root of the matter was not in her. If, on the contrary, he badeher God-speed, she would rest content with that against the world andnever lose heart in the face of any future criticism. No wonder the dayseemed fraught with tremendous issues to Emily.
When school was out Mr. Carpenter asked her to remain. She was sowhite and tense that the other pupils thought she must have been foundout by Mr. Carpenter in some especially dreadful behaviour and knewshe was going to “catch it.” Rhoda Stuart flung her a significantlymalicious smile from the porch--which Emily never even saw. She was,indeed, at a momentous bar, with Mr. Carpenter as supreme judge, andher whole future career--so she believed--hanging on his verdict.
The pupils disappeared and a mellow sunshiny stillness settled overthe old schoolroom. Mr. Carpenter took the little packet she had givenhim in the morning out of his desk, came down the aisle and sat in theseat before her, facing her. Very deliberately he settled his glassesastride his hooked nose, took out her manuscripts and began to read--orrather to glance over them, flinging scraps of comments, mingled withgrunts, sniffs and hoots, at her as he glanced. Emily folded her coldhands on her desk and braced her feet against the legs of it to keepher knees from trembling. This was a very terrible experience. Shewished she had never given her verses to Mr. Carpenter. They wereno good--of course they were no good. Remember the editor of the_Enterprise_.
“Humph!” said Mr. Carpenter. “_Sunset_--Lord, how many poems have beenwritten on ‘Sunset’--
    ‘The clouds are massed in splendid state    At heaven’s unbarred western gate    Where troops of star-eyed spirits wait’--
By gad, what does that mean?”
“I--I--don’t know,” faltered startled Emily, whose wits had beenscattered by the sudden swoop of his spiked glance.
Mr. Carpenter snorted.
“For heaven’s sake, girl, don’t write what you can’t understandyourself. And this--_To Life_--‘Life, as thy gift I ask no rainbowjoy’--is that sincere? Is it, girl. Stop and think. _Do_ you ask ‘norainbow joy’ of life?”
He transfixed her with another glare. But Emily was beginning to pickherself up a bit. Nevertheless, she suddenly felt oddly ashamed of thevery elevated and unselfish desires expressed in that sonnet.
“No--o,” she answered reluctantly. “I _do_ want rainbow joy--lots ofit.”
“Of course you do. We all do. We don’t get it--you won’t get it--butdon’t be hypocrite enough to pretend you don’t want it, even in asonnet. _Lines to a Mountain Cascade_-- ‘On its dark rocks like thewhiteness of a veil around a bride’--Where did you see a mountaincascade in Prince Edward Island?”
“Nowhere--there’s a picture of one in Dr. Burnley’s library.”
“_A Wood Stream_--
    ‘The threading sunbeams quiver,    The bending bushes shiver,    O’er the little shadowy river’--
There’s only one more rhyme that occurs to me and that’s ‘liver.’ Whydid you leave it out?”
Emily writhed.
“_Wind Song_--
       ‘I have shaken the dew in the meadows    From the clover’s creamy gown’--
Pretty, but weak. _June_--June, for heaven’s sake, girl, don’t writepoetry on June. It’s the sickliest subject in the world. It’s beenwritten to death.”
“No, June is immortal,” cried Emily suddenly, a mutinous sparklereplacing the strained look in her eyes. She was not going to let Mr.Carpenter have it all his own way.
But Mr. Carpenter had tossed _June_ aside without reading a line of it.
“‘I weary of the hungry world’--what do you know of the hungryworld?--you in your New Moon seclusion of old trees and old maids--butit _is_ hungry. _Ode to Winter_--the seasons are a sort of disease allyoung poets must have, it seems--ha! ‘Spring will not forget’--_that’s_a good line--the only good line in it. H’m’m--_Wanderings_--
    ‘I’ve learned the secret of the rune    That the somber pines on the hillside croon’--
Have you--_have_ you learned that secret?”
“I think I’ve always known it,” said Emily dreamily. That flash ofunimaginable sweetness that sometimes surprised her had just come andgone.
“_Aim and Endeavour_--too didactic--too didactic. You’ve no right totry to teach until you’re old--and then you won’t want to--
    ‘Her face was like a star all pale and fair’--
Were you looking in the glass when you composed that line?”
“No--” indignantly.
“‘When the morning light is shaken like a banner on the hill’--a goodline--a good line--
    ‘Oh, on such a golden morning    To be living is delight’--
Too much like a faint echo of Wordsworth. _The Sea in September_--‘blueand austerely bright’--‘austerely bright’--child, how can you marry theright adjectives like that? _Morning_--‘all the secret fears that hauntthe night’--what do _you_ know of the fears that haunt the night?”
“I know something,” said Emily decidedly, remembering her first nightat Wyther Grange.
“_To a Dead Day_--
    ‘With the chilly calm on her brow    That only the dead may wear’--
Have you ever _seen_ the chilly calm on the brow of the dead, Emily?”
“Yes,” said Emily softly, recalling that grey dawn in the old house inthe hollow.
“I thought so--otherwise you couldn’t have written _that_--and even asit is--how old are you, jade?”
“Thirteen, last May.”
“Humph! _Lines to Mrs. George Irving’s Infant Son_--you should studythe art of titles, Emily--there’s a fashion in them as in everythingelse. Your titles are as out of date as the candles of New Moon--
    ‘Soundly he sleeps with his red lips pressed    Like a beautiful blossom close to her breast’--
The rest isn’t worth reading. _September_--is there a month you’vemissed?--‘Windy meadows harvest-deep’--good line. _Blair Water byMoonlight_--gossamer, Emily, nothing but gossamer. _The Garden of NewMoon_--
    ‘Beguiling laughter and old song    Of merry maids and men’--
Good line--I suppose New Moon _is_ full of ghosts. ‘Death’s fell minionwell fulfilled its part’--that might have passed in Addison’s day butnot now--not now, Emily--
    ‘Your azure dimples are the graves    Where million buried sunbeams play’--
Atrocious, girl--atrocious. Graves aren’t playgrounds. How much would_you_ play if you were buried?”
Emily writhed and blushed again. _Why_ couldn’t she have seen thatherself? _Any_ goose could have seen it.
    “‘Sail onward, ships--white wings, sail on,    Till past the horizon’s purple bar    You drift from sight.--In flush of dawn    Sail on, and ’neath the evening star’--
Trash--trash--and yet there’s a picture in it--
    ‘Lap softly, purple waves. I dream,    And dreams are sweet--I’ll wake no more’--
Ah, but you’ll have to wake if you want to accomplish anything. Girl,you’ve used _purple_ twice in the same poem.
    ‘Buttercups in a golden frenzy’--
‘a golden frenzy’--girl, I _see_ the wind shaking the buttercups.
    ‘From the purple gates of the west I come’--
You’re too fond of purple, Emily.”
“It’s such a lovely word,” said Emily.
    “‘Dreams that seem too bright to die’--
_Seem_ but never _are_, Emily--
    ‘The luring voice of the echo, fame’--
So you’ve heard it, too? It _is_ a lure and for most of us only anecho. And that’s the last of the lot.”
Mr. Carpenter swept the little sheets aside, folded his arms on thedesk, and looked over his glasses at Emily.
Emily looked back at him mutely, nervelessly. All the life seemed tohave been drained out of her body and concentrated in her eyes.
“Ten good lines out of four hundred, Emily--comparatively good, thatis--and all the rest balderdash--balderdash, Emily.”
“I--suppose so,” said Emily faintly.
Her eyes brimmed with tears--her lips quivered. She could not help it.Pride was hopelessly submerged in the bitterness of her disappointment.She felt exactly like a candle that somebody had blown out.
“What are you crying for?” demanded Mr. Carpenter.
Emily blinked away the tears and tried to laugh.
“I--I’m sorry--you think it’s no good--” she said.
Mr. Carpenter gave the desk a mighty thump.
“No good! Didn’t I tell you there were ten good lines? Jade, for tenrighteous men Sodom had been spared.”
“Do you mean--that--after all--” The candle was being relighted again.
“Of course, I mean. If at thirteen you can write ten good lines, attwenty you’ll write ten times ten--if the gods are kind. Stop messingover months, though--and don’t imagine you’re a genius either, if you_have_ written ten decent lines. I think there’s _something_ trying tospeak through you--but you’ll have to make yourself a fit instrumentfor it. You’ve got to work hard and sacrifice--by gad, girl, you’vechosen a jealous goddess. And she never lets her votaries go--not evenwhen she shuts her ears forever to their plea. What have you there?”
Emily, her heart thrilling, handed him her Jimmy-book. She was so happythat it shone through her whole being with a positive radiance. Shesaw her future, wonderful, brilliant--oh, her goddess would listen to_her_--“Emily B. Starr, the distinguished poet”--“E. Byrd Starr, therising young novelist”--
She was recalled from her enchanting reverie by a chuckle from Mr.Carpenter. Emily wondered a little uneasily what he was laughing at.She didn’t think there was anything funny in _that_ book. It containedonly three or four of her latest stories--_The Butterfly Queen_, alittle fairy tale; _The Disappointed House_, wherein she had woven apretty dream of hopes come true after long years; _The Secret of theGlen_, which, in spite of its title, was a fanciful little dialoguebetween the Spirit of the Snow, the Spirit of the Grey Rain, theSpirit of Mist, and the Spirit of Moonshine.
“So you think I am not beautiful when I say my prayers?” said Mr.Carpenter.
Emily gasped--realized what had happened--made a frantic grab at herJimmy-book--missed it. Mr. Carpenter held it up beyond her reach andmocked at her.
She had given him the wrong Jimmy-book! And this one, oh, horrors,what was in it? Or rather, what wasn’t in it? Sketches of everyone inBlair Water--and a full--a very full--description of Mr. Carpenterhimself. Intent on describing him exactly, she had been as mercilesslylucid as she always was, especially in regard to the odd faces hemade on mornings when he opened the school day with a prayer. Thanksto her dramatic knack of word painting, Mr. Carpenter _lived_ in thatsketch. Emily did not know it, but _he_ did--he saw himself as in aglass and the artistry of it pleased him so that he cared for nothingelse. Besides, she had drawn his good points quite as clearly as hisbad ones. And there were some sentences in it--“He looks as if he knewa great deal that can never be any use to him”--“I think he wears theblack coat Mondays because it makes him feel that he hasn’t been drunkat all.” Who or what had taught the little jade these things? Oh, hergoddess would not pass Emily by!
“I’m--sorry,” said Emily, crimson with shame all over her daintypaleness.
“Why, I wouldn’t have missed this for all the poetry you’ve written orever will write! By gad, it’s literature--_literature_--and you’re onlythirteen. But you don’t know what’s ahead of you--the stony hills--thesteep ascents--the buffets--the discouragements. Stay in the valley ifyou’re wise. Emily, _why_ do you want to write? Give me your reason.”
“I want to be famous and rich,” said Emily coolly.
“Everybody does. Is that all?”
“No. I just _love_ to write.”
“A better reason--but not enough--not enough. Tell me this--if you knewyou would be poor as a church mouse all your life--if you knew you’dnever have a line published--would you still go on writing--_would_you?”
“Of course I would,” said Emily disdainfully. “Why, I _have_ towrite--I can’t help it by times--I’ve just _got_ to.”
“Oh--then I’d waste my breath giving advice at all. If it’s _in_ youto climb you must--there are those who _must_ lift their eyes to thehills--they can’t breathe properly in the valleys. God help them ifthere’s some weakness in them that prevents their climbing. You don’tunderstand a word I’m saying--yet. But go on--climb! There, takeyour book and go home. Thirty years from now I will have a claim todistinction in the fact that Emily Byrd Starr was once a pupil of mine.Go--go--before I remember what a disrespectful baggage you are to writesuch stuff about me and be properly enraged.”
Emily went, still a bit scared but oddly exultant behind her fright.She was so happy that her happiness seemed to irradiate the world withits own splendour. All the sweet sounds of nature around her seemedlike the broken words of her own delight. Mr. Carpenter watched her outof sight from the old worn threshold.
“Wind--and flame--and sea!” he muttered. “Nature is always taking usby surprise. This child has--what I have never had and would have madeany sacrifice to have. But ‘the gods don’t allow us to be in theirdebt’--she will pay for it--she will pay.”
At sunset Emily sat in the lookout room. It was flooded with softsplendour. Outside, in sky and trees, were delicate tintings andaerial sounds. Down in the garden Daffy was chasing dead leaves alongthe red walks. The sight of his sleek, striped sides, the grace ofhis movements, gave her pleasure--as did the beautiful, even, glossyfurrows of the ploughed fields beyond the lane, and the first faintwhite star in the crystal-green sky.
The wind of the autumn night was blowing trumpets of fairyland on thehills; and over in Lofty John’s bush was laughter--like the laughter offauns. Ilse and Perry and Teddy were waiting there for her--they hadmade a tryst for a twilight romp. She would go to them--presently--notyet. She was so full of rapture that she must write it out before shewent back from her world of dreams to the world of reality. Once shewould have poured it into a letter to her father. She could no longerdo that. But on the table before her lay a brand-new Jimmy-book. Shepulled it towards her, took up her pen, and on its first virgin pageshe wrote.
                                  NEW MOON,                                    BLAIR WATER,                                       P. E. ISLAND.                                   October 8th.
I am going to write a diary, that it may be published when I die.