CONTENTS
            Preface         I. In Chancery        II. In Fashion       III. A Progress        IV. Telescopic Philanthropy         V. A Morning Adventure        VI. Quite at Home       VII. The Ghost's Walk      VIII. Covering a Multitude of Sins        IX. Signs and Tokens         X. The Law-Writer        XI. Our Dear Brother       XII. On the Watch      XIII. Esther's Narrative       XIV. Deportment        XV. Bell Yard       XVI. Tom-all-Alone's      XVII. Esther's Narrative     XVIII. Lady Dedlock       XIX. Moving On        XX. A New Lodger       XXI. The Smallweed Family      XXII. Mr. Bucket     XXIII. Esther's Narrative      XXIV. An Appeal Case       XXV. Mrs. Snagsby Sees It All      XXVI. Sharpshooters     XXVII. More Old Soldiers Than One    XXVIII. The Ironmaster      XXIX. The Young Man       XXX. Esther's Narrative      XXXI. Nurse and Patient     XXXII. The Appointed Time    XXXIII. Interlopers     XXXIV. A Turn of the Screw      XXXV. Esther's Narrative     XXXVI. Chesney Wold    XXXVII. Jarndyce and Jarndyce   XXXVIII. A Struggle     XXXIX. Attorney and Client        XL. National and Domestic       XLI. In Mr. Tulkinghorn's Room      XLII. In Mr. Tulkinghorn's Chambers     XLIII. Esther's Narrative      XLIV. The Letter and the Answer       XLV. In Trust      XLVI. Stop Him!     XLVII. Jo's Will    XLVIII. Closing In      XLIX. Dutiful Friendship         L. Esther's Narrative        LI. Enlightened       LII. Obstinacy      LIII. The Track       LIV. Springing a Mine        LV. Flight       LVI. Pursuit      LVII. Esther's Narrative     LVIII. A Wintry Day and Night       LIX. Esther's Narrative        LX. Perspective       LXI. A Discovery      LXII. Another Discovery     LXIII. Steel and Iron   LXIV. Esther's Narrative   LXV. Beginning the World   LXVI. Down in Lincolnshire   LXVII. The Close of Esther's Narrative



PREFACE

A Chancery judge once had the kindness to inform me, as one of acompany of some hundred and fifty men and women not labouring underany suspicions of lunacy, that the Court of Chancery, though theshining subject of much popular prejudice (at which point I thoughtthe judge's eye had a cast in my direction), was almost immaculate.There had been, he admitted, a trivial blemish or so in its rate ofprogress, but this was exaggerated and had been entirely owing to the"parsimony of the public," which guilty public, it appeared, had beenuntil lately bent in the most determined manner on by no meansenlarging the number of Chancery judges appointed--I believe byRichard the Second, but any other king will do as well.
This seemed to me too profound a joke to be inserted in the body ofthis book or I should have restored it to Conversation Kenge or toMr. Vholes, with one or other of whom I think it must haveoriginated. In such mouths I might have coupled it with an aptquotation from one of Shakespeare's sonnets:
                     "My nature is subdued   To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:   Pity me, then, and wish I were renewed!"
But as it is wholesome that the parsimonious public should know whathas been doing, and still is doing, in this connexion, I mention herethat everything set forth in these pages concerning the Court ofChancery is substantially true, and within the truth. The case ofGridley is in no essential altered from one of actual occurrence,made public by a disinterested person who was professionallyacquainted with the whole of the monstrous wrong from beginning toend. At the present moment (August, 1853) there is a suit before thecourt which was commenced nearly twenty years ago, in which fromthirty to forty counsel have been known to appear at one time, inwhich costs have been incurred to the amount of seventy thousandpounds, which is A FRIENDLY SUIT, and which is (I am assured) nonearer to its termination now than when it was begun. There isanother well-known suit in Chancery, not yet decided, which wascommenced before the close of the last century and in which more thandouble the amount of seventy thousand pounds has been swallowed up incosts. If I wanted other authorities for Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Icould rain them on these pages, to the shame of--a parsimoniouspublic.
There is only one other point on which I offer a word of remark. Thepossibility of what is called spontaneous combustion has been deniedsince the death of Mr. Krook; and my good friend Mr. Lewes (quitemistaken, as he soon found, in supposing the thing to have beenabandoned by all authorities) published some ingenious letters to meat the time when that event was chronicled, arguing that spontaneouscombustion could not possibly be. I have no need to observe that I donot wilfully or negligently mislead my readers and that before Iwrote that description I took pains to investigate the subject. Thereare about thirty cases on record, of which the most famous, that ofthe Countess Cornelia de Baudi Cesenate, was minutely investigatedand described by Giuseppe Bianchini, a prebendary of Verona,otherwise distinguished in letters, who published an account of it atVerona in 1731, which he afterwards republished at Rome. Theappearances, beyond all rational doubt, observed in that case are theappearances observed in Mr. Krook's case. The next most famousinstance happened at Rheims six years earlier, and the historian inthat case is Le Cat, one of the most renowned surgeons produced byFrance. The subject was a woman, whose husband was ignorantlyconvicted of having murdered her; but on solemn appeal to a highercourt, he was acquitted because it was shown upon the evidence thatshe had died the death of which this name of spontaneous combustionis given. I do not think it necessary to add to these notable facts,and that general reference to the authorities which will be found atpage 30, vol. ii.,* the recorded opinions and experiences ofdistinguished medical professors, French, English, and Scotch, inmore modern days, contenting myself with observing that I shall notabandon the facts until there shall have been a considerablespontaneous combustion of the testimony on which human occurrencesare usually received.**
In Bleak House I have purposely dwelt upon the romantic side offamiliar things.

1853

   *Transcriber's note. This referred to a specific page in    the printed book. In this Project Gutenberg edition the    pertinent information is in Chapter XXX, paragraph 90.
   ** Another case, very clearly described by a dentist,    occurred at the town of Columbus, in the United States    of America, quite recently. The subject was a German who    kept a liquor-shop and was an inveterate drunkard.



CHAPTER I
In Chancery

London. Michaelmas term lately over, and the Lord Chancellor sittingin Lincoln's Inn Hall. Implacable November weather. As much mud inthe streets as if the waters had but newly retired from the face ofthe earth, and it would not be wonderful to meet a Megalosaurus,forty feet long or so, waddling like an elephantine lizard up HolbornHill. Smoke lowering down from chimney-pots, making a soft blackdrizzle, with flakes of soot in it as big as full-grownsnowflakes--gone into mourning, one might imagine, for the death ofthe sun. Dogs, undistinguishable in mire. Horses, scarcely better;splashed to their very blinkers. Foot passengers, jostling oneanother's umbrellas in a general infection of ill temper, and losingtheir foot-hold at street-corners, where tens of thousands of otherfoot passengers have been slipping and sliding since the day broke(if this day ever broke), adding new deposits to the crust upon crustof mud, sticking at those points tenaciously to the pavement, andaccumulating at compound interest.
Fog everywhere. Fog up the river, where it flows among green aits andmeadows; fog down the river, where it rolls defiled among the tiersof shipping and the waterside pollutions of a great (and dirty) city.Fog on the Essex marshes, fog on the Kentish heights. Fog creepinginto the cabooses of collier-brigs; fog lying out on the yards andhovering in the rigging of great ships; fog drooping on the gunwalesof barges and small boats. Fog in the eyes and throats of ancientGreenwich pensioners, wheezing by the firesides of their wards; fogin the stem and bowl of the afternoon pipe of the wrathful skipper,down in his close cabin; fog cruelly pinching the toes and fingers ofhis shivering little 'prentice boy on deck. Chance people on thebridges peeping over the parapets into a nether sky of fog, with fogall round them, as if they were up in a balloon and hanging in themisty clouds.
Gas looming through the fog in divers places in the streets, much asthe sun may, from the spongey fields, be seen to loom by husbandmanand ploughboy. Most of the shops lighted two hours before theirtime--as the gas seems to know, for it has a haggard and unwillinglook.
The raw afternoon is rawest, and the dense fog is densest, and themuddy streets are muddiest near that leaden-headed old obstruction,appropriate ornament for the threshold of a leaden-headed oldcorporation, Temple Bar. And hard by Temple Bar, in Lincoln's InnHall, at the very heart of the fog, sits the Lord High Chancellor inhis High Court of Chancery.
Never can there come fog too thick, never can there come mud and miretoo deep, to assort with the groping and floundering condition whichthis High Court of Chancery, most pestilent of hoary sinners, holdsthis day in the sight of heaven and earth.
On such an afternoon, if ever, the Lord High Chancellor ought to besitting here--as here he is--with a foggy glory round his head,softly fenced in with crimson cloth and curtains, addressed by alarge advocate with great whiskers, a little voice, and aninterminable brief, and outwardly directing his contemplation to thelantern in the roof, where he can see nothing but fog. On such anafternoon some score of members of the High Court of Chancery barought to be--as here they are--mistily engaged in one of the tenthousand stages of an endless cause, tripping one another up onslippery precedents, groping knee-deep in technicalities, runningtheir goat-hair and horsehair warded heads against walls of words andmaking a pretence of equity with serious faces, as players might. Onsuch an afternoon the various solicitors in the cause, some two orthree of whom have inherited it from their fathers, who made afortune by it, ought to be--as are they not?--ranged in a line, in along matted well (but you might look in vain for truth at the bottomof it) between the registrar's red table and the silk gowns, withbills, cross-bills, answers, rejoinders, injunctions, affidavits,issues, references to masters, masters' reports, mountains of costlynonsense, piled before them. Well may the court be dim, with wastingcandles here and there; well may the fog hang heavy in it, as if itwould never get out; well may the stained-glass windows lose theircolour and admit no light of day into the place; well may theuninitiated from the streets, who peep in through the glass panes inthe door, be deterred from entrance by its owlish aspect and by thedrawl, languidly echoing to the roof from the padded dais where theLord High Chancellor looks into the lantern that has no light in itand where the attendant wigs are all stuck in a fog-bank! This is theCourt of Chancery, which has its decaying houses and its blightedlands in every shire, which has its worn-out lunatic in everymadhouse and its dead in every churchyard, which has its ruinedsuitor with his slipshod heels and threadbare dress borrowing andbegging through the round of every man's acquaintance, which gives tomonied might the means abundantly of wearying out the right, which soexhausts finances, patience, courage, hope, so overthrows the brainand breaks the heart, that there is not an honourable man among itspractitioners who would not give--who does not often give--thewarning, "Suffer any wrong that can be done you rather than comehere!"
Who happen to be in the Lord Chancellor's court this murky afternoonbesides the Lord Chancellor, the counsel in the cause, two or threecounsel who are never in any cause, and the well of solicitors beforementioned? There is the registrar below the judge, in wig and gown;and there are two or three maces, or petty-bags, or privy purses, orwhatever they may be, in legal court suits. These are all yawning,for no crumb of amusement ever falls from Jarndyce and Jarndyce (thecause in hand), which was squeezed dry years upon years ago. Theshort-hand writers, the reporters of the court, and the reporters ofthe newspapers invariably decamp with the rest of the regulars whenJarndyce and Jarndyce comes on. Their places are a blank. Standing ona seat at the side of the hall, the better to peer into the curtainedsanctuary, is a little mad old woman in a squeezed bonnet who isalways in court, from its sitting to its rising, and always expectingsome incomprehensible judgment to be given in her favour. Some sayshe really is, or was, a party to a suit, but no one knows forcertain because no one cares. She carries some small litter in areticule which she calls her documents, principally consisting ofpaper matches and dry lavender. A sallow prisoner has come up, incustody, for the half-dozenth time to make a personal application "topurge himself of his contempt," which, being a solitary survivingexecutor who has fallen into a state of conglomeration about accountsof which it is not pretended that he had ever any knowledge, he isnot at all likely ever to do. In the meantime his prospects in lifeare ended. Another ruined suitor, who periodically appears fromShropshire and breaks out into efforts to address the Chancellor atthe close of the day's business and who can by no means be made tounderstand that the Chancellor is legally ignorant of his existenceafter making it desolate for a quarter of a century, plants himselfin a good place and keeps an eye on the judge, ready to call out "MyLord!" in a voice of sonorous complaint on the instant of his rising.A few lawyers' clerks and others who know this suitor by sight lingeron the chance of his furnishing some fun and enlivening the dismalweather a little.
Jarndyce and Jarndyce drones on. This scarecrow of a suit has, incourse of time, become so complicated that no man alive knows what itmeans. The parties to it understand it least, but it has beenobserved that no two Chancery lawyers can talk about it for fiveminutes without coming to a total disagreement as to all thepremises. Innumerable children have been born into the cause;innumerable young people have married into it; innumerable old peoplehave died out of it. Scores of persons have deliriously foundthemselves made parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce without knowing howor why; whole families have inherited legendary hatreds with thesuit. The little plaintiff or defendant who was promised a newrocking-horse when Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be settled has grownup, possessed himself of a real horse, and trotted away into theother world. Fair wards of court have faded into mothers andgrandmothers; a long procession of Chancellors has come in and goneout; the legion of bills in the suit have been transformed into merebills of mortality; there are not three Jarndyces left upon the earthperhaps since old Tom Jarndyce in despair blew his brains out at acoffee-house in Chancery Lane; but Jarndyce and Jarndyce still dragsits dreary length before the court, perennially hopeless.
Jarndyce and Jarndyce has passed into a joke. That is the only goodthat has ever come of it. It has been death to many, but it is a jokein the profession. Every master in Chancery has had a reference outof it. Every Chancellor was "in it," for somebody or other, when hewas counsel at the bar. Good things have been said about it byblue-nosed, bulbous-shoed old benchers in select port-wine committeeafter dinner in hall. Articled clerks have been in the habit offleshing their legal wit upon it. The last Lord Chancellor handled itneatly, when, correcting Mr. Blowers, the eminent silk gown who saidthat such a thing might happen when the sky rained potatoes, heobserved, "or when we get through Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Mr.Blowers"--a pleasantry that particularly tickled the maces, bags, andpurses.
How many people out of the suit Jarndyce and Jarndyce has stretchedforth its unwholesome hand to spoil and corrupt would be a very widequestion. From the master upon whose impaling files reams of dustywarrants in Jarndyce and Jarndyce have grimly writhed into manyshapes, down to the copying-clerk in the Six Clerks' Office who hascopied his tens of thousands of Chancery folio-pages under thateternal heading, no man's nature has been made better by it. Intrickery, evasion, procrastination, spoliation, botheration, underfalse pretences of all sorts, there are influences that can nevercome to good. The very solicitors' boys who have kept the wretchedsuitors at bay, by protesting time out of mind that Mr. Chizzle,Mizzle, or otherwise was particularly engaged and had appointmentsuntil dinner, may have got an extra moral twist and shuffle intothemselves out of Jarndyce and Jarndyce. The receiver in the causehas acquired a goodly sum of money by it but has acquired too adistrust of his own mother and a contempt for his own kind. Chizzle,Mizzle, and otherwise have lapsed into a habit of vaguely promisingthemselves that they will look into that outstanding little matterand see what can be done for Drizzle--who was not well used--whenJarndyce and Jarndyce shall be got out of the office. Shirking andsharking in all their many varieties have been sown broadcast by theill-fated cause; and even those who have contemplated its historyfrom the outermost circle of such evil have been insensibly temptedinto a loose way of letting bad things alone to take their own badcourse, and a loose belief that if the world go wrong it was in someoff-hand manner never meant to go right.
Thus, in the midst of the mud and at the heart of the fog, sits theLord High Chancellor in his High Court of Chancery.
"Mr. Tangle," says the Lord High Chancellor, latterly somethingrestless under the eloquence of that learned gentleman.
"Mlud," says Mr. Tangle. Mr. Tangle knows more of Jarndyce andJarndyce than anybody. He is famous for it--supposed never to haveread anything else since he left school.
"Have you nearly concluded your argument?"
"Mlud, no--variety of points--feel it my duty tsubmit--ludship," isthe reply that slides out of Mr. Tangle.
"Several members of the bar are still to be heard, I believe?" saysthe Chancellor with a slight smile.
Eighteen of Mr. Tangle's learned friends, each armed with a littlesummary of eighteen hundred sheets, bob up like eighteen hammers in apianoforte, make eighteen bows, and drop into their eighteen placesof obscurity.
"We will proceed with the hearing on Wednesday fortnight," says theChancellor. For the question at issue is only a question of costs, amere bud on the forest tree of the parent suit, and really will cometo a settlement one of these days.
The Chancellor rises; the bar rises; the prisoner is brought forwardin a hurry; the man from Shropshire cries, "My lord!" Maces, bags,and purses indignantly proclaim silence and frown at the man fromShropshire.
"In reference," proceeds the Chancellor, still on Jarndyce andJarndyce, "to the young girl--"
"Begludship's pardon--boy," says Mr. Tangle prematurely. "Inreference," proceeds the Chancellor with extra distinctness, "to theyoung girl and boy, the two young people"--Mr. Tangle crushed--"whomI directed to be in attendance to-day and who are now in my privateroom, I will see them and satisfy myself as to the expediency ofmaking the order for their residing with their uncle."
Mr. Tangle on his legs again. "Begludship's pardon--dead."
"With their"--Chancellor looking through his double eye-glass at thepapers on his desk--"grandfather."
"Begludship's pardon--victim of rash action--brains."
Suddenly a very little counsel with a terrific bass voice arises,fully inflated, in the back settlements of the fog, and says, "Willyour lordship allow me? I appear for him. He is a cousin, severaltimes removed. I am not at the moment prepared to inform the court inwhat exact remove he is a cousin, but he IS a cousin."
Leaving this address (delivered like a sepulchral message) ringing inthe rafters of the roof, the very little counsel drops, and the fogknows him no more. Everybody looks for him. Nobody can see him.
"I will speak with both the young people," says the Chancellor anew,"and satisfy myself on the subject of their residing with theircousin. I will mention the matter to-morrow morning when I take myseat."
The Chancellor is about to bow to the bar when the prisoner ispresented. Nothing can possibly come of the prisoner's conglomerationbut his being sent back to prison, which is soon done. The man fromShropshire ventures another remonstrative "My lord!" but theChancellor, being aware of him, has dexterously vanished. Everybodyelse quickly vanishes too. A battery of blue bags is loaded withheavy charges of papers and carried off by clerks; the little mad oldwoman marches off with her documents; the empty court is locked up.If all the injustice it has committed and all the misery it hascaused could only be locked up with it, and the whole burnt away in agreat funeral pyre--why so much the better for other parties than theparties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce!



CHAPTER II
In Fashion

It is but a glimpse of the world of fashion that we want on this samemiry afternoon. It is not so unlike the Court of Chancery but that wemay pass from the one scene to the other, as the crow flies. Both theworld of fashion and the Court of Chancery are things of precedentand usage: oversleeping Rip Van Winkles who have played at strangegames through a deal of thundery weather; sleeping beauties whom theknight will wake one day, when all the stopped spits in the kitchenshall begin to turn prodigiously!
It is not a large world. Relatively even to this world of ours, whichhas its limits too (as your Highness shall find when you have madethe tour of it and are come to the brink of the void beyond), it is avery little speck. There is much good in it; there are many good andtrue people in it; it has its appointed place. But the evil of it isthat it is a world wrapped up in too much jeweller's cotton and finewool, and cannot hear the rushing of the larger worlds, and cannotsee them as they circle round the sun. It is a deadened world, andits growth is sometimes unhealthy for want of air.
My Lady Dedlock has returned to her house in town for a few daysprevious to her departure for Paris, where her ladyship intends tostay some weeks, after which her movements are uncertain. Thefashionable intelligence says so for the comfort of the Parisians,and it knows all fashionable things. To know things otherwise were tobe unfashionable. My Lady Dedlock has been down at what she calls, infamiliar conversation, her "place" in Lincolnshire. The waters areout in Lincolnshire. An arch of the bridge in the park has beensapped and sopped away. The adjacent low-lying ground for half a milein breadth is a stagnant river with melancholy trees for islands init and a surface punctured all over, all day long, with falling rain.My Lady Dedlock's place has been extremely dreary. The weather formany a day and night has been so wet that the trees seem wet through,and the soft loppings and prunings of the woodman's axe can make nocrash or crackle as they fall. The deer, looking soaked, leavequagmires where they pass. The shot of a rifle loses its sharpness inthe moist air, and its smoke moves in a tardy little cloud towardsthe green rise, coppice-topped, that makes a background for thefalling rain. The view from my Lady Dedlock's own windows isalternately a lead-coloured view and a view in Indian ink. The vaseson the stone terrace in the foreground catch the rain all day; andthe heavy drops fall--drip, drip, drip--upon the broad flaggedpavement, called from old time the Ghost's Walk, all night. OnSundays the little church in the park is mouldy; the oaken pulpitbreaks out into a cold sweat; and there is a general smell and tasteas of the ancient Dedlocks in their graves. My Lady Dedlock (who ischildless), looking out in the early twilight from her boudoir at akeeper's lodge and seeing the light of a fire upon the latticedpanes, and smoke rising from the chimney, and a child, chased by awoman, running out into the rain to meet the shining figure of awrapped-up man coming through the gate, has been put quite out oftemper. My Lady Dedlock says she has been "bored to death."
Therefore my Lady Dedlock has come away from the place inLincolnshire and has left it to the rain, and the crows, and therabbits, and the deer, and the partridges and pheasants. The picturesof the Dedlocks past and gone have seemed to vanish into the dampwalls in mere lowness of spirits, as the housekeeper has passed alongthe old rooms shutting up the shutters. And when they will next comeforth again, the fashionable intelligence--which, like the fiend, isomniscient of the past and present, but not the future--cannot yetundertake to say.
Sir Leicester Dedlock is only a baronet, but there is no mightierbaronet than he. His family is as old as the hills, and infinitelymore respectable. He has a general opinion that the world might geton without hills but would be done up without Dedlocks. He would onthe whole admit nature to be a good idea (a little low, perhaps, whennot enclosed with a park-fence), but an idea dependent for itsexecution on your great county families. He is a gentleman of strictconscience, disdainful of all littleness and meanness and ready onthe shortest notice to die any death you may please to mention ratherthan give occasion for the least impeachment of his integrity. He isan honourable, obstinate, truthful, high-spirited, intenselyprejudiced, perfectly unreasonable man.
Sir Leicester is twenty years, full measure, older than my Lady. Hewill never see sixty-five again, nor perhaps sixty-six, nor yetsixty-seven. He has a twist of the gout now and then and walks alittle stiffly. He is of a worthy presence, with his light-grey hairand whiskers, his fine shirt-frill, his pure-white waistcoat, and hisblue coat with bright buttons always buttoned. He is ceremonious,stately, most polite on every occasion to my Lady, and holds herpersonal attractions in the highest estimation. His gallantry to myLady, which has never changed since he courted her, is the one littletouch of romantic fancy in him.
Indeed, he married her for love. A whisper still goes about that shehad not even family; howbeit, Sir Leicester had so much family thatperhaps he had enough and could dispense with any more. But she hadbeauty, pride, ambition, insolent resolve, and sense enough toportion out a legion of fine ladies. Wealth and station, added tothese, soon floated her upward, and for years now my Lady Dedlock hasbeen at the centre of the fashionable intelligence and at the top ofthe fashionable tree.
How Alexander wept when he had no more worlds to conquer, everybodyknows--or has some reason to know by this time, the matter havingbeen rather frequently mentioned. My Lady Dedlock, having conqueredHER world, fell not into the melting, but rather into the freezing,mood. An exhausted composure, a worn-out placidity, an equanimity offatigue not to be ruffled by interest or satisfaction, are thetrophies of her victory. She is perfectly well-bred. If she could betranslated to heaven to-morrow, she might be expected to ascendwithout any rapture.
She has beauty still, and if it be not in its heyday, it is not yetin its autumn. She has a fine face--originally of a character thatwould be rather called very pretty than handsome, but improved intoclassicality by the acquired expression of her fashionable state. Herfigure is elegant and has the effect of being tall. Not that she isso, but that "the most is made," as the Honourable Bob Stables hasfrequently asserted upon oath, "of all her points." The sameauthority observes that she is perfectly got up and remarks incommendation of her hair especially that she is the best-groomedwoman in the whole stud.
With all her perfections on her head, my Lady Dedlock has come upfrom her place in Lincolnshire (hotly pursued by the fashionableintelligence) to pass a few days at her house in town previous to herdeparture for Paris, where her ladyship intends to stay some weeks,after which her movements are uncertain. And at her house in town,upon this muddy, murky afternoon, presents himself an old-fashionedold gentleman, attorney-at-law and eke solicitor of the High Court ofChancery, who has the honour of acting as legal adviser of theDedlocks and has as many cast-iron boxes in his office with that nameoutside as if the present baronet were the coin of the conjuror'strick and were constantly being juggled through the whole set. Acrossthe hall, and up the stairs, and along the passages, and through therooms, which are very brilliant in the season and very dismal out ofit--fairy-land to visit, but a desert to live in--the old gentlemanis conducted by a Mercury in powder to my Lady's presence.
The old gentleman is rusty to look at, but is reputed to have madegood thrift out of aristocratic marriage settlements and aristocraticwills, and to be very rich. He is surrounded by a mysterious halo offamily confidences, of which he is known to be the silent depository.There are noble mausoleums rooted for centuries in retired glades ofparks among the growing timber and the fern, which perhaps hold fewernoble secrets than walk abroad among men, shut up in the breast ofMr. Tulkinghorn. He is of what is called the old school--a phrasegenerally meaning any school that seems never to have been young--andwears knee-breeches tied with ribbons, and gaiters or stockings. Onepeculiarity of his black clothes and of his black stockings, be theysilk or worsted, is that they never shine. Mute, close, irresponsiveto any glancing light, his dress is like himself. He never converseswhen not professionally consulted. He is found sometimes, speechlessbut quite at home, at corners of dinner-tables in great countryhouses and near doors of drawing-rooms, concerning which thefashionable intelligence is eloquent, where everybody knows him andwhere half the Peerage stops to say "How do you do, Mr. Tulkinghorn?"He receives these salutations with gravity and buries them along withthe rest of his knowledge.
Sir Leicester Dedlock is with my Lady and is happy to see Mr.Tulkinghorn. There is an air of prescription about him which isalways agreeable to Sir Leicester; he receives it as a kind oftribute. He likes Mr. Tulkinghorn's dress; there is a kind of tributein that too. It is eminently respectable, and likewise, in a generalway, retainer-like. It expresses, as it were, the steward of thelegal mysteries, the butler of the legal cellar, of the Dedlocks.
Has Mr. Tulkinghorn any idea of this himself? It may be so, or it maynot, but there is this remarkable circumstance to be noted ineverything associated with my Lady Dedlock as one of a class--as oneof the leaders and representatives of her little world. She supposesherself to be an inscrutable Being, quite out of the reach and ken ofordinary mortals--seeing herself in her glass, where indeed she looksso. Yet every dim little star revolving about her, from her maid tothe manager of the Italian Opera, knows her weaknesses, prejudices,follies, haughtinesses, and caprices and lives upon as accurate acalculation and as nice a measure of her moral nature as herdressmaker takes of her physical proportions. Is a new dress, a newcustom, a new singer, a new dancer, a new form of jewellery, a newdwarf or giant, a new chapel, a new anything, to be set up? There aredeferential people in a dozen callings whom my Lady Dedlock suspectsof nothing but prostration before her, who can tell you how to manageher as if she were a baby, who do nothing but nurse her all theirlives, who, humbly affecting to follow with profound subservience,lead her and her whole troop after them; who, in hooking one, hookall and bear them off as Lemuel Gulliver bore away the stately fleetof the majestic Lilliput. "If you want to address our people, sir,"say Blaze and Sparkle, the jewellers--meaning by our people LadyDedlock and the rest--"you must remember that you are not dealingwith the general public; you must hit our people in their weakestplace, and their weakest place is such a place." "To make thisarticle go down, gentlemen," say Sheen and Gloss, the mercers, totheir friends the manufacturers, "you must come to us, because weknow where to have the fashionable people, and we can make itfashionable." "If you want to get this print upon the tables of myhigh connexion, sir," says Mr. Sladdery, the librarian, "or if youwant to get this dwarf or giant into the houses of my high connexion,sir, or if you want to secure to this entertainment the patronage ofmy high connexion, sir, you must leave it, if you please, to me, forI have been accustomed to study the leaders of my high connexion,sir, and I may tell you without vanity that I can turn them round myfinger"--in which Mr. Sladdery, who is an honest man, does notexaggerate at all.
Therefore, while Mr. Tulkinghorn may not know what is passing in theDedlock mind at present, it is very possible that he may.
"My Lady's cause has been again before the Chancellor, has it, Mr.Tulkinghorn?" says Sir Leicester, giving him his hand.
"Yes. It has been on again to-day," Mr. Tulkinghorn replies, makingone of his quiet bows to my Lady, who is on a sofa near the fire,shading her face with a hand-screen.
"It would be useless to ask," says my Lady with the dreariness of theplace in Lincolnshire still upon her, "whether anything has beendone."
"Nothing that YOU would call anything has been done to-day," repliesMr. Tulkinghorn.
"Nor ever will be," says my Lady.
Sir Leicester has no objection to an interminable Chancery suit. Itis a slow, expensive, British, constitutional kind of thing. To besure, he has not a vital interest in the suit in question, her partin which was the only property my Lady brought him; and he has ashadowy impression that for his name--the name of Dedlock--to be in acause, and not in the title of that cause, is a most ridiculousaccident. But he regards the Court of Chancery, even if it shouldinvolve an occasional delay of justice and a trifling amount ofconfusion, as a something devised in conjunction with a variety ofother somethings by the perfection of human wisdom for the eternalsettlement (humanly speaking) of everything. And he is upon the wholeof a fixed opinion that to give the sanction of his countenance toany complaints respecting it would be to encourage some person in thelower classes to rise up somewhere--like Wat Tyler.
"As a few fresh affidavits have been put upon the file," says Mr.Tulkinghorn, "and as they are short, and as I proceed upon thetroublesome principle of begging leave to possess my clients with anynew proceedings in a cause"--cautious man Mr. Tulkinghorn, taking nomore responsibility than necessary--"and further, as I see you aregoing to Paris, I have brought them in my pocket."
(Sir Leicester was going to Paris too, by the by, but the delight ofthe fashionable intelligence was in his Lady.)
Mr. Tulkinghorn takes out his papers, asks permission to place themon a golden talisman of a table at my Lady's elbow, puts on hisspectacles, and begins to read by the light of a shaded lamp.
"'In Chancery. Between John Jarndyce--'"
My Lady interrupts, requesting him to miss as many of the formalhorrors as he can.
Mr. Tulkinghorn glances over his spectacles and begins again lowerdown. My Lady carelessly and scornfully abstracts her attention. SirLeicester in a great chair looks at the file and appears to have astately liking for the legal repetitions and prolixities as rangingamong the national bulwarks. It happens that the fire is hot where myLady sits and that the hand-screen is more beautiful than useful,being priceless but small. My Lady, changing her position, sees thepapers on the table--looks at them nearer--looks at them nearerstill--asks impulsively, "Who copied that?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn stops short, surprised by my Lady's animation and herunusual tone.
"Is it what you people call law-hand?" she asks, looking full at himin her careless way again and toying with her screen.
"Not quite. Probably"--Mr. Tulkinghorn examines it as he speaks--"thelegal character which it has was acquired after the original hand wasformed. Why do you ask?"
"Anything to vary this detestable monotony. Oh, go on, do!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn reads again. The heat is greater; my Lady screens herface. Sir Leicester dozes, starts up suddenly, and cries, "Eh? Whatdo you say?"
"I say I am afraid," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, who had risen hastily,"that Lady Dedlock is ill."
"Faint," my Lady murmurs with white lips, "only that; but it is likethe faintness of death. Don't speak to me. Ring, and take me to myroom!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn retires into another chamber; bells ring, feetshuffle and patter, silence ensues. Mercury at last begs Mr.Tulkinghorn to return.
"Better now," quoth Sir Leicester, motioning the lawyer to sit downand read to him alone. "I have been quite alarmed. I never knew myLady swoon before. But the weather is extremely trying, and shereally has been bored to death down at our place in Lincolnshire."



CHAPTER III
A Progress

I have a great deal of difficulty in beginning to write my portion ofthese pages, for I know I am not clever. I always knew that. I canremember, when I was a very little girl indeed, I used to say to mydoll when we were alone together, "Now, Dolly, I am not clever, youknow very well, and you must be patient with me, like a dear!" And soshe used to sit propped up in a great arm-chair, with her beautifulcomplexion and rosy lips, staring at me--or not so much at me, Ithink, as at nothing--while I busily stitched away and told her everyone of my secrets.
My dear old doll! I was such a shy little thing that I seldom daredto open my lips, and never dared to open my heart, to anybody else.It almost makes me cry to think what a relief it used to be to mewhen I came home from school of a day to run upstairs to my room andsay, "Oh, you dear faithful Dolly, I knew you would be expecting me!"and then to sit down on the floor, leaning on the elbow of her greatchair, and tell her all I had noticed since we parted. I had alwaysrather a noticing way--not a quick way, oh, no!--a silent way ofnoticing what passed before me and thinking I should like tounderstand it better. I have not by any means a quick understanding.When I love a person very tenderly indeed, it seems to brighten. Buteven that may be my vanity.
I was brought up, from my earliest remembrance--like some of theprincesses in the fairy stories, only I was not charming--by mygodmother. At least, I only knew her as such. She was a good, goodwoman! She went to church three times every Sunday, and to morningprayers on Wednesdays and Fridays, and to lectures whenever therewere lectures; and never missed. She was handsome; and if she hadever smiled, would have been (I used to think) like an angel--but shenever smiled. She was always grave and strict. She was so very goodherself, I thought, that the badness of other people made her frownall her life. I felt so different from her, even making everyallowance for the differences between a child and a woman; I felt sopoor, so trifling, and so far off that I never could be unrestrainedwith her--no, could never even love her as I wished. It made me verysorry to consider how good she was and how unworthy of her I was, andI used ardently to hope that I might have a better heart; and Italked it over very often with the dear old doll, but I never lovedmy godmother as I ought to have loved her and as I felt I must haveloved her if I had been a better girl.
This made me, I dare say, more timid and retiring than I naturallywas and cast me upon Dolly as the only friend with whom I felt atease. But something happened when I was still quite a little thingthat helped it very much.
I had never heard my mama spoken of. I had never heard of my papaeither, but I felt more interested about my mama. I had never worn ablack frock, that I could recollect. I had never been shown my mama'sgrave. I had never been told where it was. Yet I had never beentaught to pray for any relation but my godmother. I had more thanonce approached this subject of my thoughts with Mrs. Rachael, ouronly servant, who took my light away when I was in bed (another verygood woman, but austere to me), and she had only said, "Esther, goodnight!" and gone away and left me.
Although there were seven girls at the neighbouring school where Iwas a day boarder, and although they called me little EstherSummerson, I knew none of them at home. All of them were older thanI, to be sure (I was the youngest there by a good deal), but thereseemed to be some other separation between us besides that, andbesides their being far more clever than I was and knowing much morethan I did. One of them in the first week of my going to the school(I remember it very well) invited me home to a little party, to mygreat joy. But my godmother wrote a stiff letter declining for me,and I never went. I never went out at all.
It was my birthday. There were holidays at school on otherbirthdays--none on mine. There were rejoicings at home on otherbirthdays, as I knew from what I heard the girls relate to oneanother--there were none on mine. My birthday was the most melancholyday at home in the whole year.
I have mentioned that unless my vanity should deceive me (as I knowit may, for I may be very vain without suspecting it, though indeed Idon't), my comprehension is quickened when my affection is. Mydisposition is very affectionate, and perhaps I might still feel sucha wound if such a wound could be received more than once with thequickness of that birthday.
Dinner was over, and my godmother and I were sitting at the tablebefore the fire. The clock ticked, the fire clicked; not anothersound had been heard in the room or in the house for I don't know howlong. I happened to look timidly up from my stitching, across thetable at my godmother, and I saw in her face, looking gloomily at me,"It would have been far better, little Esther, that you had had nobirthday, that you had never been born!"
I broke out crying and sobbing, and I said, "Oh, dear godmother, tellme, pray do tell me, did Mama die on my birthday?"
"No," she returned. "Ask me no more, child!"
"Oh, do pray tell me something of her. Do now, at last, deargodmother, if you please! What did I do to her? How did I lose her?Why am I so different from other children, and why is it my fault,dear godmother? No, no, no, don't go away. Oh, speak to me!"
I was in a kind of fright beyond my grief, and I caught hold of herdress and was kneeling to her. She had been saying all the while,"Let me go!" But now she stood still.
Her darkened face had such power over me that it stopped me in themidst of my vehemence. I put up my trembling little hand to clasphers or to beg her pardon with what earnestness I might, but withdrewit as she looked at me, and laid it on my fluttering heart. Sheraised me, sat in her chair, and standing me before her, said slowlyin a cold, low voice--I see her knitted brow and pointedfinger--"Your mother, Esther, is your disgrace, and you were hers.The time will come--and soon enough--when you will understand thisbetter and will feel it too, as no one save a woman can. I haveforgiven her"--but her face did not relent--"the wrong she did to me,and I say no more of it, though it was greater than you will everknow--than any one will ever know but I, the sufferer. For yourself,unfortunate girl, orphaned and degraded from the first of these evilanniversaries, pray daily that the sins of others be not visited uponyour head, according to what is written. Forget your mother and leaveall other people to forget her who will do her unhappy child thatgreatest kindness. Now, go!"
She checked me, however, as I was about to depart from her--so frozenas I was!--and added this, "Submission, self-denial, diligent work,are the preparations for a life begun with such a shadow on it. Youare different from other children, Esther, because you were not born,like them, in common sinfulness and wrath. You are set apart."
I went up to my room, and crept to bed, and laid my doll's cheekagainst mine wet with tears, and holding that solitary friend upon mybosom, cried myself to sleep. Imperfect as my understanding of mysorrow was, I knew that I had brought no joy at any time to anybody'sheart and that I was to no one upon earth what Dolly was to me.
Dear, dear, to think how much time we passed alone togetherafterwards, and how often I repeated to the doll the story of mybirthday and confided to her that I would try as hard as ever I couldto repair the fault I had been born with (of which I confessedly feltguilty and yet innocent) and would strive as I grew up to beindustrious, contented, and kind-hearted and to do some good to someone, and win some love to myself if I could. I hope it is notself-indulgent to shed these tears as I think of it. I am verythankful, I am very cheerful, but I cannot quite help their coming tomy eyes.
There! I have wiped them away now and can go on again properly.
I felt the distance between my godmother and myself so much moreafter the birthday, and felt so sensible of filling a place in herhouse which ought to have been empty, that I found her more difficultof approach, though I was fervently grateful to her in my heart, thanever. I felt in the same way towards my school companions; I felt inthe same way towards Mrs. Rachael, who was a widow; and oh, towardsher daughter, of whom she was proud, who came to see her once afortnight! I was very retired and quiet, and tried to be verydiligent.
One sunny afternoon when I had come home from school with my booksand portfolio, watching my long shadow at my side, and as I wasgliding upstairs to my room as usual, my godmother looked out of theparlour-door and called me back. Sitting with her, I found--which wasvery unusual indeed--a stranger. A portly, important-lookinggentleman, dressed all in black, with a white cravat, large goldwatch seals, a pair of gold eye-glasses, and a large seal-ring uponhis little finger.
"This," said my godmother in an undertone, "is the child." Then shesaid in her naturally stern way of speaking, "This is Esther, sir."
The gentleman put up his eye-glasses to look at me and said, "Comehere, my dear!" He shook hands with me and asked me to take off mybonnet, looking at me all the while. When I had complied, he said,"Ah!" and afterwards "Yes!" And then, taking off his eye-glasses andfolding them in a red case, and leaning back in his arm-chair,turning the case about in his two hands, he gave my godmother a nod.Upon that, my godmother said, "You may go upstairs, Esther!" And Imade him my curtsy and left him.
It must have been two years afterwards, and I was almost fourteen,when one dreadful night my godmother and I sat at the fireside. I wasreading aloud, and she was listening. I had come down at nine o'clockas I always did to read the Bible to her, and was reading from St.John how our Saviour stooped down, writing with his finger in thedust, when they brought the sinful woman to him.
"So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and saidunto them, 'He that is without sin among you, let him first cast astone at her!'"
I was stopped by my godmother's rising, putting her hand to her head,and crying out in an awful voice from quite another part of the book,"'Watch ye, therefore, lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. Andwhat I say unto you, I say unto all, Watch!'"
In an instant, while she stood before me repeating these words, shefell down on the floor. I had no need to cry out; her voice hadsounded through the house and been heard in the street.
She was laid upon her bed. For more than a week she lay there, littlealtered outwardly, with her old handsome resolute frown that I sowell knew carved upon her face. Many and many a time, in the day andin the night, with my head upon the pillow by her that my whispersmight be plainer to her, I kissed her, thanked her, prayed for her,asked her for her blessing and forgiveness, entreated her to give methe least sign that she knew or heard me. No, no, no. Her face wasimmovable. To the very last, and even afterwards, her frown remainedunsoftened.
On the day after my poor good godmother was buried, the gentleman inblack with the white neckcloth reappeared. I was sent for by Mrs.Rachael, and found him in the same place, as if he had never goneaway.
"My name is Kenge," he said; "you may remember it, my child; Kengeand Carboy, Lincoln's Inn."
I replied that I remembered to have seen him once before.
"Pray be seated--here near me. Don't distress yourself; it's of nouse. Mrs. Rachael, I needn't inform you who were acquainted with thelate Miss Barbary's affairs, that her means die with her and thatthis young lady, now her aunt is dead--"
"My aunt, sir!"
"It is really of no use carrying on a deception when no object is tobe gained by it," said Mr. Kenge smoothly, "Aunt in fact, though notin law. Don't distress yourself! Don't weep! Don't tremble! Mrs.Rachael, our young friend has no doubt heard of--the--a--Jarndyce andJarndyce."
"Never," said Mrs. Rachael.
"Is it possible," pursued Mr. Kenge, putting up his eye-glasses,"that our young friend--I BEG you won't distress yourself!--neverheard of Jarndyce and Jarndyce!"
I shook my head, wondering even what it was.
"Not of Jarndyce and Jarndyce?" said Mr. Kenge, looking over hisglasses at me and softly turning the case about and about as if hewere petting something. "Not of one of the greatest Chancery suitsknown? Not of Jarndyce and Jarndyce--the--a--in itself a monument ofChancery practice. In which (I would say) every difficulty, everycontingency, every masterly fiction, every form of procedure knownin that court, is represented over and over again? It is a causethat could not exist out of this free and great country. I shouldsay that the aggregate of costs in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Mrs.Rachael"--I was afraid he addressed himself to her because I appearedinattentive"--amounts at the present hour to from SIX-ty to SEVEN-tyTHOUSAND POUNDS!" said Mr. Kenge, leaning back in his chair.
I felt very ignorant, but what could I do? I was so entirelyunacquainted with the subject that I understood nothing about it eventhen.
"And she really never heard of the cause!" said Mr. Kenge."Surprising!"
"Miss Barbary, sir," returned Mrs. Rachael, "who is now among theSeraphim--"
"I hope so, I am sure," said Mr. Kenge politely.
"--Wished Esther only to know what would be serviceable to her. Andshe knows, from any teaching she has had here, nothing more."
"Well!" said Mr. Kenge. "Upon the whole, very proper. Now to thepoint," addressing me. "Miss Barbary, your sole relation (in factthat is, for I am bound to observe that in law you had none) beingdeceased and it naturally not being to be expected that Mrs.Rachael--"
"Oh, dear no!" said Mrs. Rachael quickly.
"Quite so," assented Mr. Kenge; "--that Mrs. Rachael should chargeherself with your maintenance and support (I beg you won't distressyourself), you are in a position to receive the renewal of an offerwhich I was instructed to make to Miss Barbary some two years ago andwhich, though rejected then, was understood to be renewable under thelamentable circumstances that have since occurred. Now, if I avowthat I represent, in Jarndyce and Jarndyce and otherwise, a highlyhumane, but at the same time singular, man, shall I compromise myselfby any stretch of my professional caution?" said Mr. Kenge, leaningback in his chair again and looking calmly at us both.
He appeared to enjoy beyond everything the sound of his own voice. Icouldn't wonder at that, for it was mellow and full and gave greatimportance to every word he uttered. He listened to himself withobvious satisfaction and sometimes gently beat time to his own musicwith his head or rounded a sentence with his hand. I was very muchimpressed by him--even then, before I knew that he formed himself onthe model of a great lord who was his client and that he wasgenerally called Conversation Kenge.
"Mr. Jarndyce," he pursued, "being aware of the--I would say,desolate--position of our young friend, offers to place her at afirst-rate establishment where her education shall be completed,where her comfort shall be secured, where her reasonable wants shallbe anticipated, where she shall be eminently qualified to dischargeher duty in that station of life unto which it has pleased--shall Isay Providence?--to call her."
My heart was filled so full, both by what he said and by hisaffecting manner of saying it, that I was not able to speak, though Itried.
"Mr. Jarndyce," he went on, "makes no condition beyond expressing hisexpectation that our young friend will not at any time remove herselffrom the establishment in question without his knowledge andconcurrence. That she will faithfully apply herself to theacquisition of those accomplishments, upon the exercise of which shewill be ultimately dependent. That she will tread in the paths ofvirtue and honour, and--the--a--so forth."
I was still less able to speak than before.
"Now, what does our young friend say?" proceeded Mr. Kenge. "Taketime, take time! I pause for her reply. But take time!"
What the destitute subject of such an offer tried to say, I need notrepeat. What she did say, I could more easily tell, if it were worththe telling. What she felt, and will feel to her dying hour, I couldnever relate.
This interview took place at Windsor, where I had passed (as far as Iknew) my whole life. On that day week, amply provided with allnecessaries, I left it, inside the stagecoach, for Reading.
Mrs. Rachael was too good to feel any emotion at parting, but I wasnot so good, and wept bitterly. I thought that I ought to have knownher better after so many years and ought to have made myself enoughof a favourite with her to make her sorry then. When she gave me onecold parting kiss upon my forehead, like a thaw-drop from the stoneporch--it was a very frosty day--I felt so miserable andself-reproachful that I clung to her and told her it was my fault, Iknew, that she could say good-bye so easily!
"No, Esther!" she returned. "It is your misfortune!"
The coach was at the little lawn-gate--we had not come out until weheard the wheels--and thus I left her, with a sorrowful heart. Shewent in before my boxes were lifted to the coach-roof and shut thedoor. As long as I could see the house, I looked back at it from thewindow through my tears. My godmother had left Mrs. Rachael all thelittle property she possessed; and there was to be a sale; and an oldhearth-rug with roses on it, which always seemed to me the firstthing in the world I had ever seen, was hanging outside in the frostand snow. A day or two before, I had wrapped the dear old doll in herown shawl and quietly laid her--I am half ashamed to tell it--in thegarden-earth under the tree that shaded my old window. I had nocompanion left but my bird, and him I carried with me in his cage.
When the house was out of sight, I sat, with my bird-cage in thestraw at my feet, forward on the low seat to look out of the highwindow, watching the frosty trees, that were like beautiful pieces ofspar, and the fields all smooth and white with last night's snow, andthe sun, so red but yielding so little heat, and the ice, dark likemetal where the skaters and sliders had brushed the snow away. Therewas a gentleman in the coach who sat on the opposite seat and lookedvery large in a quantity of wrappings, but he sat gazing out of theother window and took no notice of me.
I thought of my dead godmother, of the night when I read to her, ofher frowning so fixedly and sternly in her bed, of the strange placeI was going to, of the people I should find there, and what theywould be like, and what they would say to me, when a voice in thecoach gave me a terrible start.
It said, "What the de-vil are you crying for?"
I was so frightened that I lost my voice and could only answer in awhisper, "Me, sir?" For of course I knew it must have been thegentleman in the quantity of wrappings, though he was still lookingout of his window.
"Yes, you," he said, turning round.
"I didn't know I was crying, sir," I faltered.
"But you are!" said the gentleman. "Look here!" He came quiteopposite to me from the other corner of the coach, brushed one of hislarge furry cuffs across my eyes (but without hurting me), and showedme that it was wet.
"There! Now you know you are," he said. "Don't you?"
"Yes, sir," I said.
"And what are you crying for?" said the gentleman, "Don't you want togo there?"
"Where, sir?"
"Where? Why, wherever you are going," said the gentleman.
"I am very glad to go there, sir," I answered.
"Well, then! Look glad!" said the gentleman.
I thought he was very strange, or at least that what I could see ofhim was very strange, for he was wrapped up to the chin, and his facewas almost hidden in a fur cap with broad fur straps at the side ofhis head fastened under his chin; but I was composed again, and notafraid of him. So I told him that I thought I must have been cryingbecause of my godmother's death and because of Mrs. Rachael's notbeing sorry to part with me.
"Confound Mrs. Rachael!" said the gentleman. "Let her fly away in ahigh wind on a broomstick!"
I began to be really afraid of him now and looked at him with thegreatest astonishment. But I thought that he had pleasant eyes,although he kept on muttering to himself in an angry manner andcalling Mrs. Rachael names.
After a little while he opened his outer wrapper, which appeared tome large enough to wrap up the whole coach, and put his arm down intoa deep pocket in the side.
"Now, look here!" he said. "In this paper," which was nicely folded,"is a piece of the best plum-cake that can be got for money--sugar onthe outside an inch thick, like fat on mutton chops. Here's a littlepie (a gem this is, both for size and quality), made in France. Andwhat do you suppose it's made of? Livers of fat geese. There's a pie!Now let's see you eat 'em."
"Thank you, sir," I replied; "thank you very much indeed, but I hopeyou won't be offended--they are too rich for me."
"Floored again!" said the gentleman, which I didn't at allunderstand, and threw them both out of window.
He did not speak to me any more until he got out of the coach alittle way short of Reading, when he advised me to be a good girl andto be studious, and shook hands with me. I must say I was relieved byhis departure. We left him at a milestone. I often walked past itafterwards, and never for a long time without thinking of him andhalf expecting to meet him. But I never did; and so, as time went on,he passed out of my mind.
When the coach stopped, a very neat lady looked up at the window andsaid, "Miss Donny."
"No, ma'am, Esther Summerson."
"That is quite right," said the lady, "Miss Donny."
I now understood that she introduced herself by that name, and beggedMiss Donny's pardon for my mistake, and pointed out my boxes at herrequest. Under the direction of a very neat maid, they were putoutside a very small green carriage; and then Miss Donny, the maid,and I got inside and were driven away.
"Everything is ready for you, Esther," said Miss Donny, "and thescheme of your pursuits has been arranged in exact accordance withthe wishes of your guardian, Mr. Jarndyce."
"Of--did you say, ma'am?"
"Of your guardian, Mr. Jarndyce," said Miss Donny.
I was so bewildered that Miss Donny thought the cold had been toosevere for me and lent me her smelling-bottle.
"Do you know my--guardian, Mr. Jarndyce, ma'am?" I asked after a gooddeal of hesitation.
"Not personally, Esther," said Miss Donny; "merely through hissolicitors, Messrs. Kenge and Carboy, of London. A very superiorgentleman, Mr. Kenge. Truly eloquent indeed. Some of his periodsquite majestic!"
I felt this to be very true but was too confused to attend to it. Ourspeedy arrival at our destination, before I had time to recovermyself, increased my confusion, and I never shall forget theuncertain and the unreal air of everything at Greenleaf (Miss Donny'shouse) that afternoon!
But I soon became used to it. I was so adapted to the routine ofGreenleaf before long that I seemed to have been there a great whileand almost to have dreamed rather than really lived my old life at mygodmother's. Nothing could be more precise, exact, and orderly thanGreenleaf. There was a time for everything all round the dial of theclock, and everything was done at its appointed moment.
We were twelve boarders, and there were two Miss Donnys, twins. Itwas understood that I would have to depend, by and by, on myqualifications as a governess, and I was not only instructed ineverything that was taught at Greenleaf, but was very soon engaged inhelping to instruct others. Although I was treated in every otherrespect like the rest of the school, this single difference was madein my case from the first. As I began to know more, I taught more,and so in course of time I had plenty to do, which I was very fond ofdoing because it made the dear girls fond of me. At last, whenever anew pupil came who was a little downcast and unhappy, she was sosure--indeed I don't know why--to make a friend of me that allnew-comers were confided to my care. They said I was so gentle, but Iam sure THEY were! I often thought of the resolution I had made on mybirthday to try to be industrious, contented, and true-hearted and todo some good to some one and win some love if I could; and indeed,indeed, I felt almost ashamed to have done so little and have won somuch.
I passed at Greenleaf six happy, quiet years. I never saw in any facethere, thank heaven, on my birthday, that it would have been betterif I had never been born. When the day came round, it brought me somany tokens of affectionate remembrance that my room was beautifulwith them from New Year's Day to Christmas.
In those six years I had never been away except on visits at holidaytime in the neighbourhood. After the first six months or so I hadtaken Miss Donny's advice in reference to the propriety of writing toMr. Kenge to say that I was happy and grateful, and with her approvalI had written such a letter. I had received a formal answeracknowledging its receipt and saying, "We note the contents thereof,which shall be duly communicated to our client." After that Isometimes heard Miss Donny and her sister mention how regular myaccounts were paid, and about twice a year I ventured to write asimilar letter. I always received by return of post exactly the sameanswer in the same round hand, with the signature of Kenge and Carboyin another writing, which I supposed to be Mr. Kenge's.
It seems so curious to me to be obliged to write all this aboutmyself! As if this narrative were the narrative of MY life! But mylittle body will soon fall into the background now.
Six quiet years (I find I am saying it for the second time) I hadpassed at Greenleaf, seeing in those around me, as it might be in alooking-glass, every stage of my own growth and change there, when,one November morning, I received this letter. I omit the date.

   Old Square, Lincoln's Inn
   Madam,
   Jarndyce and Jarndyce
   Our clt Mr. Jarndyce being abt to rece into his house,   under an Order of the Ct of Chy, a Ward of the Ct in this   cause, for whom he wishes to secure an elgble compn,   directs us to inform you that he will be glad of your   serces in the afsd capacity.
   We have arrngd for your being forded, carriage free, pr   eight o'clock coach from Reading, on Monday morning next,   to White Horse Cellar, Piccadilly, London, where one of   our clks will be in waiting to convey you to our offe as   above.
   We are, Madam, Your obedt Servts,
   Kenge and Carboy
   Miss Esther Summerson

Oh, never, never, never shall I forget the emotion this letter causedin the house! It was so tender in them to care so much for me, it wasso gracious in that father who had not forgotten me to have made myorphan way so smooth and easy and to have inclined so many youthfulnatures towards me, that I could hardly bear it. Not that I wouldhave had them less sorry--I am afraid not; but the pleasure of it,and the pain of it, and the pride and joy of it, and the humbleregret of it were so blended that my heart seemed almost breakingwhile it was full of rapture.
The letter gave me only five days' notice of my removal. When everyminute added to the proofs of love and kindness that were given me inthose five days, and when at last the morning came and when they tookme through all the rooms that I might see them for the last time, andwhen some cried, "Esther, dear, say good-bye to me here at mybedside, where you first spoke so kindly to me!" and when othersasked me only to write their names, "With Esther's love," and whenthey all surrounded me with their parting presents and clung to meweeping and cried, "What shall we do when dear, dear Esther's gone!"and when I tried to tell them how forbearing and how good they hadall been to me and how I blessed and thanked them every one, what aheart I had!
And when the two Miss Donnys grieved as much to part with me as theleast among them, and when the maids said, "Bless you, miss, whereveryou go!" and when the ugly lame old gardener, who I thought hadhardly noticed me in all those years, came panting after the coach togive me a little nosegay of geraniums and told me I had been thelight of his eyes--indeed the old man said so!--what a heart I hadthen!
And could I help it if with all this, and the coming to the littleschool, and the unexpected sight of the poor children outside wavingtheir hats and bonnets to me, and of a grey-haired gentleman and ladywhose daughter I had helped to teach and at whose house I had visited(who were said to be the proudest people in all that country), caringfor nothing but calling out, "Good-bye, Esther. May you be veryhappy!"--could I help it if I was quite bowed down in the coach bymyself and said "Oh, I am so thankful, I am so thankful!" many timesover!
But of course I soon considered that I must not take tears where Iwas going after all that had been done for me. Therefore, of course,I made myself sob less and persuaded myself to be quiet by sayingvery often, "Esther, now you really must! This WILL NOT do!" Icheered myself up pretty well at last, though I am afraid I waslonger about it than I ought to have been; and when I had cooled myeyes with lavender water, it was time to watch for London.
I was quite persuaded that we were there when we were ten miles off,and when we really were there, that we should never get there.However, when we began to jolt upon a stone pavement, andparticularly when every other conveyance seemed to be running intous, and we seemed to be running into every other conveyance, I beganto believe that we really were approaching the end of our journey.Very soon afterwards we stopped.
A young gentleman who had inked himself by accident addressed me fromthe pavement and said, "I am from Kenge and Carboy's, miss, ofLincoln's Inn."
"If you please, sir," said I.
He was very obliging, and as he handed me into a fly aftersuperintending the removal of my boxes, I asked him whether there wasa great fire anywhere? For the streets were so full of dense brownsmoke that scarcely anything was to be seen.
"Oh, dear no, miss," he said. "This is a London particular."
I had never heard of such a thing.
"A fog, miss," said the young gentleman.
"Oh, indeed!" said I.
We drove slowly through the dirtiest and darkest streets that everwere seen in the world (I thought) and in such a distracting state ofconfusion that I wondered how the people kept their senses, until wepassed into sudden quietude under an old gateway and drove on througha silent square until we came to an odd nook in a corner, where therewas an entrance up a steep, broad flight of stairs, like an entranceto a church. And there really was a churchyard outside under somecloisters, for I saw the gravestones from the staircase window.
This was Kenge and Carboy's. The young gentleman showed me through anouter office into Mr. Kenge's room--there was no one in it--andpolitely put an arm-chair for me by the fire. He then called myattention to a little looking-glass hanging from a nail on one sideof the chimney-piece.
"In case you should wish to look at yourself, miss, after thejourney, as you're going before the Chancellor. Not that it'srequisite, I am sure," said the young gentleman civilly.
"Going before the Chancellor?" I said, startled for a moment.
"Only a matter of form, miss," returned the young gentleman. "Mr.Kenge is in court now. He left his compliments, and would you partakeof some refreshment"--there were biscuits and a decanter of wine on asmall table--"and look over the paper," which the young gentlemangave me as he spoke. He then stirred the fire and left me.
Everything was so strange--the stranger from its being night in theday-time, the candles burning with a white flame, and looking raw andcold--that I read the words in the newspaper without knowing whatthey meant and found myself reading the same words repeatedly. As itwas of no use going on in that way, I put the paper down, took a peepat my bonnet in the glass to see if it was neat, and looked at theroom, which was not half lighted, and at the shabby, dusty tables,and at the piles of writings, and at a bookcase full of the mostinexpressive-looking books that ever had anything to say forthemselves. Then I went on, thinking, thinking, thinking; and thefire went on, burning, burning, burning; and the candles went onflickering and guttering, and there were no snuffers--until the younggentleman by and by brought a very dirty pair--for two hours.
At last Mr. Kenge came. HE was not altered, but he was surprised tosee how altered I was and appeared quite pleased. "As you are goingto be the companion of the young lady who is now in the Chancellor'sprivate room, Miss Summerson," he said, "we thought it well that youshould be in attendance also. You will not be discomposed by the LordChancellor, I dare say?"
"No, sir," I said, "I don't think I shall," really not seeing onconsideration why I should be.
So Mr. Kenge gave me his arm and we went round the corner, under acolonnade, and in at a side door. And so we came, along a passage,into a comfortable sort of room where a young lady and a younggentleman were standing near a great, loud-roaring fire. A screen wasinterposed between them and it, and they were leaning on the screen,talking.
They both looked up when I came in, and I saw in the young lady, withthe fire shining upon her, such a beautiful girl! With such richgolden hair, such soft blue eyes, and such a bright, innocent,trusting face!
"Miss Ada," said Mr. Kenge, "this is Miss Summerson."
She came to meet me with a smile of welcome and her hand extended,but seemed to change her mind in a moment and kissed me. In short,she had such a natural, captivating, winning manner that in a fewminutes we were sitting in the window-seat, with the light of thefire upon us, talking together as free and happy as could be.
What a load off my mind! It was so delightful to know that she couldconfide in me and like me! It was so good of her, and so encouragingto me!
The young gentleman was her distant cousin, she told me, and his nameRichard Carstone. He was a handsome youth with an ingenuous face anda most engaging laugh; and after she had called him up to where wesat, he stood by us, in the light of the fire, talking gaily, like alight-hearted boy. He was very young, not more than nineteen then, ifquite so much, but nearly two years older than she was. They wereboth orphans and (what was very unexpected and curious to me) hadnever met before that day. Our all three coming together for thefirst time in such an unusual place was a thing to talk about, and wetalked about it; and the fire, which had left off roaring, winked itsred eyes at us--as Richard said--like a drowsy old Chancery lion.
We conversed in a low tone because a full-dressed gentleman in a bagwig frequently came in and out, and when he did so, we could hear adrawling sound in the distance, which he said was one of the counselin our case addressing the Lord Chancellor. He told Mr. Kenge thatthe Chancellor would be up in five minutes; and presently we heard abustle and a tread of feet, and Mr. Kenge said that the Court hadrisen and his lordship was in the next room.
The gentleman in the bag wig opened the door almost directly andrequested Mr. Kenge to come in. Upon that, we all went into the nextroom, Mr. Kenge first, with my darling--it is so natural to me nowthat I can't help writing it; and there, plainly dressed in black andsitting in an arm-chair at a table near the fire, was his lordship,whose robe, trimmed with beautiful gold lace, was thrown upon anotherchair. He gave us a searching look as we entered, but his manner wasboth courtly and kind.
The gentleman in the bag wig laid bundles of papers on his lordship'stable, and his lordship silently selected one and turned over theleaves.
"Miss Clare," said the Lord Chancellor. "Miss Ada Clare?"
Mr. Kenge presented her, and his lordship begged her to sit down nearhim. That he admired her and was interested by her even I could seein a moment. It touched me that the home of such a beautiful youngcreature should be represented by that dry, official place. The LordHigh Chancellor, at his best, appeared so poor a substitute for thelove and pride of parents.
"The Jarndyce in question," said the Lord Chancellor, still turningover leaves, "is Jarndyce of Bleak House."
"Jarndyce of Bleak House, my lord," said Mr. Kenge.
"A dreary name," said the Lord Chancellor.
"But not a dreary place at present, my lord," said Mr. Kenge.
"And Bleak House," said his lordship, "is in--"
"Hertfordshire, my lord."
"Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House is not married?" said his lordship.
"He is not, my lord," said Mr. Kenge.
A pause.
"Young Mr. Richard Carstone is present?" said the Lord Chancellor,glancing towards him.
Richard bowed and stepped forward.
"Hum!" said the Lord Chancellor, turning over more leaves.
"Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House, my lord," Mr. Kenge observed in a lowvoice, "if I may venture to remind your lordship, provides a suitablecompanion for--"
"For Mr. Richard Carstone?" I thought (but I am not quite sure) Iheard his lordship say in an equally low voice and with a smile.
"For Miss Ada Clare. This is the young lady. Miss Summerson."
His lordship gave me an indulgent look and acknowledged my curtsyvery graciously.
"Miss Summerson is not related to any party in the cause, I think?"
"No, my lord."
Mr. Kenge leant over before it was quite said and whispered. Hislordship, with his eyes upon his papers, listened, nodded twice orthrice, turned over more leaves, and did not look towards me againuntil we were going away.
Mr. Kenge now retired, and Richard with him, to where I was, near thedoor, leaving my pet (it is so natural to me that again I can't helpit!) sitting near the Lord Chancellor, with whom his lordship spoke alittle part, asking her, as she told me afterwards, whether she hadwell reflected on the proposed arrangement, and if she thought shewould be happy under the roof of Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House, and whyshe thought so? Presently he rose courteously and released her, andthen he spoke for a minute or two with Richard Carstone, not seated,but standing, and altogether with more ease and less ceremony, as ifhe still knew, though he WAS Lord Chancellor, how to go straight tothe candour of a boy.
"Very well!" said his lordship aloud. "I shall make the order. Mr.Jarndyce of Bleak House has chosen, so far as I may judge," and thiswas when he looked at me, "a very good companion for the young lady,and the arrangement altogether seems the best of which thecircumstances admit."
He dismissed us pleasantly, and we all went out, very much obliged tohim for being so affable and polite, by which he had certainly lostno dignity but seemed to us to have gained some.
When we got under the colonnade, Mr. Kenge remembered that he must goback for a moment to ask a question and left us in the fog, with theLord Chancellor's carriage and servants waiting for him to come out.
"Well!" said Richard Carstone. "THAT'S over! And where do we go next,Miss Summerson?"
"Don't you know?" I said.
"Not in the least," said he.
"And don't YOU know, my love?" I asked Ada.
"No!" said she. "Don't you?"
"Not at all!" said I.
We looked at one another, half laughing at our being like thechildren in the wood, when a curious little old woman in a squeezedbonnet and carrying a reticule came curtsying and smiling up to uswith an air of great ceremony.
"Oh!" said she. "The wards in Jarndyce! Ve-ry happy, I am sure, tohave the honour! It is a good omen for youth, and hope, and beautywhen they find themselves in this place, and don't know what's tocome of it."
"Mad!" whispered Richard, not thinking she could hear him.
"Right! Mad, young gentleman," she returned so quickly that he wasquite abashed. "I was a ward myself. I was not mad at that time,"curtsying low and smiling between every little sentence. "I had youthand hope. I believe, beauty. It matters very little now. Neither ofthe three served or saved me. I have the honour to attend courtregularly. With my documents. I expect a judgment. Shortly. On theDay of Judgment. I have discovered that the sixth seal mentioned inthe Revelations is the Great Seal. It has been open a long time! Prayaccept my blessing."
As Ada was a little frightened, I said, to humour the poor old lady,that we were much obliged to her.
"Ye-es!" she said mincingly. "I imagine so. And here is ConversationKenge. With HIS documents! How does your honourable worship do?"
"Quite well, quite well! Now don't be troublesome, that's a goodsoul!" said Mr. Kenge, leading the way back.
"By no means," said the poor old lady, keeping up with Ada and me."Anything but troublesome. I shall confer estates on both--which isnot being troublesome, I trust? I expect a judgment. Shortly. On theDay of Judgment. This is a good omen for you. Accept my blessing!"
She stopped at the bottom of the steep, broad flight of stairs; butwe looked back as we went up, and she was still there, saying, stillwith a curtsy and a smile between every little sentence, "Youth. Andhope. And beauty. And Chancery. And Conversation Kenge! Ha! Prayaccept my blessing!"



CHAPTER IV
Telescopic Philanthropy

We were to pass the night, Mr. Kenge told us when we arrived in hisroom, at Mrs. Jellyby's; and then he turned to me and said he took itfor granted I knew who Mrs. Jellyby was.
"I really don't, sir," I returned. "Perhaps Mr. Carstone--or MissClare--"
But no, they knew nothing whatever about Mrs. Jellyby. "In-deed! Mrs.Jellyby," said Mr. Kenge, standing with his back to the fire andcasting his eyes over the dusty hearth-rug as if it were Mrs.Jellyby's biography, "is a lady of very remarkable strength ofcharacter who devotes herself entirely to the public. She has devotedherself to an extensive variety of public subjects at various timesand is at present (until something else attracts her) devoted to thesubject of Africa, with a view to the general cultivation of thecoffee berry--AND the natives--and the happy settlement, on the banksof the African rivers, of our superabundant home population. Mr.Jarndyce, who is desirous to aid any work that is considered likelyto be a good work and who is much sought after by philanthropists,has, I believe, a very high opinion of Mrs. Jellyby."
Mr. Kenge, adjusting his cravat, then looked at us.
"And Mr. Jellyby, sir?" suggested Richard.
"Ah! Mr. Jellyby," said Mr. Kenge, "is--a--I don't know that I candescribe him to you better than by saying that he is the husband ofMrs. Jellyby."
"A nonentity, sir?" said Richard with a droll look.
"I don't say that," returned Mr. Kenge gravely. "I can't say that,indeed, for I know nothing whatever OF Mr. Jellyby. I never, to myknowledge, had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Jellyby. He may be a verysuperior man, but he is, so to speak, merged--merged--in the moreshining qualities of his wife." Mr. Kenge proceeded to tell us thatas the road to Bleak House would have been very long, dark, andtedious on such an evening, and as we had been travelling already,Mr. Jarndyce had himself proposed this arrangement. A carriage wouldbe at Mrs. Jellyby's to convey us out of town early in the forenoonof to-morrow.
He then rang a little bell, and the young gentleman came in.Addressing him by the name of Guppy, Mr. Kenge inquired whether MissSummerson's boxes and the rest of the baggage had been "sent round."Mr. Guppy said yes, they had been sent round, and a coach was waitingto take us round too as soon as we pleased.
"Then it only remains," said Mr. Kenge, shaking hands with us, "forme to express my lively satisfaction in (good day, Miss Clare!) thearrangement this day concluded and my (GOOD-bye to you, MissSummerson!) lively hope that it will conduce to the happiness, the(glad to have had the honour of making your acquaintance, Mr.Carstone!) welfare, the advantage in all points of view, of allconcerned! Guppy, see the party safely there."
"Where IS 'there,' Mr. Guppy?" said Richard as we went downstairs.
"No distance," said Mr. Guppy; "round in Thavies Inn, you know."
"I can't say I know where it is, for I come from Winchester and amstrange in London."
"Only round the corner," said Mr. Guppy. "We just twist up ChanceryLane, and cut along Holborn, and there we are in four minutes' time,as near as a toucher. This is about a London particular NOW, ain'tit, miss?" He seemed quite delighted with it on my account.
"The fog is very dense indeed!" said I.
"Not that it affects you, though, I'm sure," said Mr. Guppy, puttingup the steps. "On the contrary, it seems to do you good, miss,judging from your appearance."
I knew he meant well in paying me this compliment, so I laughed atmyself for blushing at it when he had shut the door and got upon thebox; and we all three laughed and chatted about our inexperience andthe strangeness of London until we turned up under an archway to ourdestination--a narrow street of high houses like an oblong cistern tohold the fog. There was a confused little crowd of people,principally children, gathered about the house at which we stopped,which had a tarnished brass plate on the door with the inscriptionJELLYBY.
"Don't be frightened!" said Mr. Guppy, looking in at thecoach-window. "One of the young Jellybys been and got his headthrough the area railings!"
"Oh, poor child," said I; "let me out, if you please!"
"Pray be careful of yourself, miss. The young Jellybys are always upto something," said Mr. Guppy.
I made my way to the poor child, who was one of the dirtiest littleunfortunates I ever saw, and found him very hot and frightened andcrying loudly, fixed by the neck between two iron railings, while amilkman and a beadle, with the kindest intentions possible, wereendeavouring to drag him back by the legs, under a general impressionthat his skull was compressible by those means. As I found (afterpacifying him) that he was a little boy with a naturally large head,I thought that perhaps where his head could go, his body couldfollow, and mentioned that the best mode of extrication might be topush him forward. This was so favourably received by the milkman andbeadle that he would immediately have been pushed into the area if Ihad not held his pinafore while Richard and Mr. Guppy ran downthrough the kitchen to catch him when he should be released. At lasthe was happily got down without any accident, and then he began tobeat Mr. Guppy with a hoop-stick in quite a frantic manner.
Nobody had appeared belonging to the house except a person inpattens, who had been poking at the child from below with a broom; Idon't know with what object, and I don't think she did. I thereforesupposed that Mrs. Jellyby was not at home, and was quite surprisedwhen the person appeared in the passage without the pattens, andgoing up to the back room on the first floor before Ada and me,announced us as, "Them two young ladies, Missis Jellyby!" We passedseveral more children on the way up, whom it was difficult to avoidtreading on in the dark; and as we came into Mrs. Jellyby's presence,one of the poor little things fell downstairs--down a whole flight(as it sounded to me), with a great noise.
Mrs. Jellyby, whose face reflected none of the uneasiness which wecould not help showing in our own faces as the dear child's headrecorded its passage with a bump on every stair--Richard afterwardssaid he counted seven, besides one for the landing--received us withperfect equanimity. She was a pretty, very diminutive, plump woman offrom forty to fifty, with handsome eyes, though they had a curioushabit of seeming to look a long way off. As if--I am quoting Richardagain--they could see nothing nearer than Africa!
"I am very glad indeed," said Mrs. Jellyby in an agreeable voice, "tohave the pleasure of receiving you. I have a great respect for Mr.Jarndyce, and no one in whom he is interested can be an object ofindifference to me."
We expressed our acknowledgments and sat down behind the door, wherethere was a lame invalid of a sofa. Mrs. Jellyby had very good hairbut was too much occupied with her African duties to brush it. Theshawl in which she had been loosely muffled dropped onto her chairwhen she advanced to us; and as she turned to resume her seat, wecould not help noticing that her dress didn't nearly meet up the backand that the open space was railed across with a lattice-work ofstay-lace--like a summer-house.
The room, which was strewn with papers and nearly filled by a greatwriting-table covered with similar litter, was, I must say, not onlyvery untidy but very dirty. We were obliged to take notice of thatwith our sense of sight, even while, with our sense of hearing, wefollowed the poor child who had tumbled downstairs: I think into theback kitchen, where somebody seemed to stifle him.
But what principally struck us was a jaded and unhealthy-lookingthough by no means plain girl at the writing-table, who sat bitingthe feather of her pen and staring at us. I suppose nobody ever wasin such a state of ink. And from her tumbled hair to her pretty feet,which were disfigured with frayed and broken satin slippers troddendown at heel, she really seemed to have no article of dress upon her,from a pin upwards, that was in its proper condition or its rightplace.
"You find me, my dears," said Mrs. Jellyby, snuffing the two greatoffice candles in tin candlesticks, which made the room tastestrongly of hot tallow (the fire had gone out, and there was nothingin the grate but ashes, a bundle of wood, and a poker), "you find me,my dears, as usual, very busy; but that you will excuse. The Africanproject at present employs my whole time. It involves me incorrespondence with public bodies and with private individualsanxious for the welfare of their species all over the country. I amhappy to say it is advancing. We hope by this time next year to havefrom a hundred and fifty to two hundred healthy families cultivatingcoffee and educating the natives of Borrioboola-Gha, on the left bankof the Niger."
As Ada said nothing, but looked at me, I said it must be verygratifying.
"It IS gratifying," said Mrs. Jellyby. "It involves the devotion ofall my energies, such as they are; but that is nothing, so that itsucceeds; and I am more confident of success every day. Do you know,Miss Summerson, I almost wonder that YOU never turned your thoughtsto Africa."
This application of the subject was really so unexpected to me that Iwas quite at a loss how to receive it. I hinted that the climate--
"The finest climate in the world!" said Mrs. Jellyby.
"Indeed, ma'am?"
"Certainly. With precaution," said Mrs. Jellyby. "You may go intoHolborn, without precaution, and be run over. You may go intoHolborn, with precaution, and never be run over. Just so withAfrica."
I said, "No doubt." I meant as to Holborn.
"If you would like," said Mrs. Jellyby, putting a number of paperstowards us, "to look over some remarks on that head, and on thegeneral subject, which have been extensively circulated, while Ifinish a letter I am now dictating to my eldest daughter, who is myamanuensis--"
The girl at the table left off biting her pen and made a return toour recognition, which was half bashful and half sulky.
"--I shall then have finished for the present," proceeded Mrs.Jellyby with a sweet smile, "though my work is never done. Where areyou, Caddy?"
"'Presents her compliments to Mr. Swallow, and begs--'" said Caddy.
"'And begs,'" said Mrs. Jellyby, dictating, "'to inform him, inreference to his letter of inquiry on the African project--' No,Peepy! Not on my account!"
Peepy (so self-named) was the unfortunate child who had fallendownstairs, who now interrupted the correspondence by presentinghimself, with a strip of plaster on his forehead, to exhibit hiswounded knees, in which Ada and I did not know which to pitymost--the bruises or the dirt. Mrs. Jellyby merely added, with theserene composure with which she said everything, "Go along, younaughty Peepy!" and fixed her fine eyes on Africa again.
However, as she at once proceeded with her dictation, and as Iinterrupted nothing by doing it, I ventured quietly to stop poorPeepy as he was going out and to take him up to nurse. He looked verymuch astonished at it and at Ada's kissing him, but soon fell fastasleep in my arms, sobbing at longer and longer intervals, until hewas quiet. I was so occupied with Peepy that I lost the letter indetail, though I derived such a general impression from it of themomentous importance of Africa, and the utter insignificance of allother places and things, that I felt quite ashamed to have thought solittle about it.
"Six o'clock!" said Mrs. Jellyby. "And our dinner hour is nominally(for we dine at all hours) five! Caddy, show Miss Clare and MissSummerson their rooms. You will like to make some change, perhaps?You will excuse me, I know, being so much occupied. Oh, that very badchild! Pray put him down, Miss Summerson!"
I begged permission to retain him, truly saying that he was not atall troublesome, and carried him upstairs and laid him on my bed. Adaand I had two upper rooms with a door of communication between. Theywere excessively bare and disorderly, and the curtain to my windowwas fastened up with a fork.
"You would like some hot water, wouldn't you?" said Miss Jellyby,looking round for a jug with a handle to it, but looking in vain.
"If it is not being troublesome," said we.
"Oh, it's not the trouble," returned Miss Jellyby; "the question is,if there IS any."
The evening was so very cold and the rooms had such a marshy smellthat I must confess it was a little miserable, and Ada was halfcrying. We soon laughed, however, and were busily unpacking when MissJellyby came back to say that she was sorry there was no hot water,but they couldn't find the kettle, and the boiler was out of order.
We begged her not to mention it and made all the haste we could toget down to the fire again. But all the little children had come upto the landing outside to look at the phenomenon of Peepy lying on mybed, and our attention was distracted by the constant apparition ofnoses and fingers in situations of danger between the hinges of thedoors. It was impossible to shut the door of either room, for mylock, with no knob to it, looked as if it wanted to be wound up; andthough the handle of Ada's went round and round with the greatestsmoothness, it was attended with no effect whatever on the door.Therefore I proposed to the children that they should come in and bevery good at my table, and I would tell them the story of Little RedRiding Hood while I dressed; which they did, and were as quiet asmice, including Peepy, who awoke opportunely before the appearance ofthe wolf.
When we went downstairs we found a mug with "A Present from TunbridgeWells" on it lighted up in the staircase window with a floating wick,and a young woman, with a swelled face bound up in a flannel bandageblowing the fire of the drawing-room (now connected by an open doorwith Mrs. Jellyby's room) and choking dreadfully. It smoked to thatdegree, in short, that we all sat coughing and crying with thewindows open for half an hour, during which Mrs. Jellyby, with thesame sweetness of temper, directed letters about Africa. Her being soemployed was, I must say, a great relief to me, for Richard told usthat he had washed his hands in a pie-dish and that they had foundthe kettle on his dressing-table, and he made Ada laugh so that theymade me laugh in the most ridiculous manner.
Soon after seven o'clock we went down to dinner, carefully, by Mrs.Jellyby's advice, for the stair-carpets, besides being very deficientin stair-wires, were so torn as to be absolute traps. We had a finecod-fish, a piece of roast beef, a dish of cutlets, and a pudding; anexcellent dinner, if it had had any cooking to speak of, but it wasalmost raw. The young woman with the flannel bandage waited, anddropped everything on the table wherever it happened to go, and nevermoved it again until she put it on the stairs. The person I had seenin pattens, who I suppose to have been the cook, frequently came andskirmished with her at the door, and there appeared to be ill willbetween them.
All through dinner--which was long, in consequence of such accidentsas the dish of potatoes being mislaid in the coal skuttle and thehandle of the corkscrew coming off and striking the young woman inthe chin--Mrs. Jellyby preserved the evenness of her disposition. Shetold us a great deal that was interesting about Borrioboola-Gha andthe natives, and received so many letters that Richard, who sat byher, saw four envelopes in the gravy at once. Some of the letterswere proceedings of ladies' committees or resolutions of ladies'meetings, which she read to us; others were applications from peopleexcited in various ways about the cultivation of coffee, and natives;others required answers, and these she sent her eldest daughter fromthe table three or four times to write. She was full of business andundoubtedly was, as she had told us, devoted to the cause.
I was a little curious to know who a mild bald gentleman inspectacles was, who dropped into a vacant chair (there was no top orbottom in particular) after the fish was taken away and seemedpassively to submit himself to Borrioboola-Gha but not to be activelyinterested in that settlement. As he never spoke a word, he mighthave been a native but for his complexion. It was not until we leftthe table and he remained alone with Richard that the possibility ofhis being Mr. Jellyby ever entered my head. But he WAS Mr. Jellyby;and a loquacious young man called Mr. Quale, with large shining knobsfor temples and his hair all brushed to the back of his head, whocame in the evening, and told Ada he was a philanthropist, alsoinformed her that he called the matrimonial alliance of Mrs. Jellybywith Mr. Jellyby the union of mind and matter.
This young man, besides having a great deal to say for himself aboutAfrica and a project of his for teaching the coffee colonists toteach the natives to turn piano-forte legs and establish an exporttrade, delighted in drawing Mrs. Jellyby out by saying, "I believenow, Mrs. Jellyby, you have received as many as from one hundred andfifty to two hundred letters respecting Africa in a single day, haveyou not?" or, "If my memory does not deceive me, Mrs. Jellyby, youonce mentioned that you had sent off five thousand circulars from onepost-office at one time?"--always repeating Mrs. Jellyby's answer tous like an interpreter. During the whole evening, Mr. Jellyby sat ina corner with his head against the wall as if he were subject to lowspirits. It seemed that he had several times opened his mouth whenalone with Richard after dinner, as if he had something on his mind,but had always shut it again, to Richard's extreme confusion, withoutsaying anything.
Mrs. Jellyby, sitting in quite a nest of waste paper, drank coffeeall the evening and dictated at intervals to her eldest daughter. Shealso held a discussion with Mr. Quale, of which the subject seemed tobe--if I understood it--the brotherhood of humanity, and gaveutterance to some beautiful sentiments. I was not so attentive anauditor as I might have wished to be, however, for Peepy and theother children came flocking about Ada and me in a corner of thedrawing-room to ask for another story; so we sat down among them andtold them in whispers "Puss in Boots" and I don't know what elseuntil Mrs. Jellyby, accidentally remembering them, sent them to bed.As Peepy cried for me to take him to bed, I carried him upstairs,where the young woman with the flannel bandage charged into the midstof the little family like a dragon and overturned them into cribs.
After that I occupied myself in making our room a little tidy and incoaxing a very cross fire that had been lighted to burn, which atlast it did, quite brightly. On my return downstairs, I felt thatMrs. Jellyby looked down upon me rather for being so frivolous, and Iwas sorry for it, though at the same time I knew that I had no higherpretensions.
It was nearly midnight before we found an opportunity of going tobed, and even then we left Mrs. Jellyby among her papers drinkingcoffee and Miss Jellyby biting the feather of her pen.
"What a strange house!" said Ada when we got upstairs. "How curiousof my cousin Jarndyce to send us here!"
"My love," said I, "it quite confuses me. I want to understand it,and I can't understand it at all."
"What?" asked Ada with her pretty smile.
"All this, my dear," said I. "It MUST be very good of Mrs. Jellyby totake such pains about a scheme for the benefit of natives--andyet--Peepy and the housekeeping!"
Ada laughed and put her arm about my neck as I stood looking at thefire, and told me I was a quiet, dear, good creature and had won herheart. "You are so thoughtful, Esther," she said, "and yet socheerful! And you do so much, so unpretendingly! You would make ahome out of even this house."
My simple darling! She was quite unconscious that she only praisedherself and that it was in the goodness of her own heart that shemade so much of me!
"May I ask you a question?" said I when we had sat before the fire alittle while.
"Five hundred," said Ada.
"Your cousin, Mr. Jarndyce. I owe so much to him. Would you minddescribing him to me?"
Shaking her golden hair, Ada turned her eyes upon me with suchlaughing wonder that I was full of wonder too, partly at her beauty,partly at her surprise.
"Esther!" she cried.
"My dear!"
"You want a description of my cousin Jarndyce?"
"My dear, I never saw him."
"And I never saw him!" returned Ada.
Well, to be sure!
No, she had never seen him. Young as she was when her mama died, sheremembered how the tears would come into her eyes when she spoke ofhim and of the noble generosity of his character, which she had saidwas to be trusted above all earthly things; and Ada trusted it. Hercousin Jarndyce had written to her a few months ago--"a plain, honestletter," Ada said--proposing the arrangement we were now to enter onand telling her that "in time it might heal some of the wounds madeby the miserable Chancery suit." She had replied, gratefullyaccepting his proposal. Richard had received a similar letter and hadmade a similar response. He HAD seen Mr. Jarndyce once, but onlyonce, five years ago, at Winchester school. He had told Ada, whenthey were leaning on the screen before the fire where I found them,that he recollected him as "a bluff, rosy fellow." This was theutmost description Ada could give me.
It set me thinking so that when Ada was asleep, I still remainedbefore the fire, wondering and wondering about Bleak House, andwondering and wondering that yesterday morning should seem so longago. I don't know where my thoughts had wandered when they wererecalled by a tap at the door.
I opened it softly and found Miss Jellyby shivering there with abroken candle in a broken candlestick in one hand and an egg-cup inthe other.
"Good night!" she said very sulkily.
"Good night!" said I.
"May I come in?" she shortly and unexpectedly asked me in the samesulky way.
"Certainly," said I. "Don't wake Miss Clare."
She would not sit down, but stood by the fire dipping her inky middlefinger in the egg-cup, which contained vinegar, and smearing it overthe ink stains on her face, frowning the whole time and looking verygloomy.
"I wish Africa was dead!" she said on a sudden.
I was going to remonstrate.
"I do!" she said "Don't talk to me, Miss Summerson. I hate it anddetest it. It's a beast!"
I told her she was tired, and I was sorry. I put my hand upon herhead, and touched her forehead, and said it was hot now but would becool to-morrow. She still stood pouting and frowning at me, butpresently put down her egg-cup and turned softly towards the bedwhere Ada lay.
"She is very pretty!" she said with the same knitted brow and in thesame uncivil manner.
I assented with a smile.
"An orphan. Ain't she?"
"Yes."
"But knows a quantity, I suppose? Can dance, and play music, andsing? She can talk French, I suppose, and do geography, and globes,and needlework, and everything?"
"No doubt," said I.
"I can't," she returned. "I can't do anything hardly, except write.I'm always writing for Ma. I wonder you two were not ashamed ofyourselves to come in this afternoon and see me able to do nothingelse. It was like your ill nature. Yet you think yourselves veryfine, I dare say!"
I could see that the poor girl was near crying, and I resumed mychair without speaking and looked at her (I hope) as mildly as I felttowards her.
"It's disgraceful," she said. "You know it is. The whole house isdisgraceful. The children are disgraceful. I'M disgraceful. Pa'smiserable, and no wonder! Priscilla drinks--she's always drinking.It's a great shame and a great story of you if you say you didn'tsmell her to-day. It was as bad as a public-house, waiting at dinner;you know it was!"
"My dear, I don't know it," said I.
"You do," she said very shortly. "You shan't say you don't. You do!"
"Oh, my dear!" said I. "If you won't let me speak--"
"You're speaking now. You know you are. Don't tell stories, MissSummerson."
"My dear," said I, "as long as you won't hear me out--"
"I don't want to hear you out."
"Oh, yes, I think you do," said I, "because that would be so veryunreasonable. I did not know what you tell me because the servant didnot come near me at dinner; but I don't doubt what you tell me, and Iam sorry to hear it."
"You needn't make a merit of that," said she.
"No, my dear," said I. "That would be very foolish."
She was still standing by the bed, and now stooped down (but stillwith the same discontented face) and kissed Ada. That done, she camesoftly back and stood by the side of my chair. Her bosom was heavingin a distressful manner that I greatly pitied, but I thought itbetter not to speak.
"I wish I was dead!" she broke out. "I wish we were all dead. Itwould be a great deal better for us."
In a moment afterwards, she knelt on the ground at my side, hid herface in my dress, passionately begged my pardon, and wept. Icomforted her and would have raised her, but she cried no, no; shewanted to stay there!
"You used to teach girls," she said, "If you could only have taughtme, I could have learnt from you! I am so very miserable, and I likeyou so much!"
I could not persuade her to sit by me or to do anything but move aragged stool to where she was kneeling, and take that, and still holdmy dress in the same manner. By degrees the poor tired girl fellasleep, and then I contrived to raise her head so that it should reston my lap, and to cover us both with shawls. The fire went out, andall night long she slumbered thus before the ashy grate. At first Iwas painfully awake and vainly tried to lose myself, with my eyesclosed, among the scenes of the day. At length, by slow degrees, theybecame indistinct and mingled. I began to lose the identity of thesleeper resting on me. Now it was Ada, now one of my old Readingfriends from whom I could not believe I had so recently parted. Nowit was the little mad woman worn out with curtsying and smiling, nowsome one in authority at Bleak House. Lastly, it was no one, and Iwas no one.
The purblind day was feebly struggling with the fog when I opened myeyes to encounter those of a dirty-faced little spectre fixed uponme. Peepy had scaled his crib, and crept down in his bed-gown andcap, and was so cold that his teeth were chattering as if he had cutthem all.



CHAPTER V
A Morning Adventure

Although the morning was raw, and although the fog still seemedheavy--I say seemed, for the windows were so encrusted with dirt thatthey would have made midsummer sunshine dim--I was sufficientlyforewarned of the discomfort within doors at that early hour andsufficiently curious about London to think it a good idea on the partof Miss Jellyby when she proposed that we should go out for a walk.
"Ma won't be down for ever so long," she said, "and then it's achance if breakfast's ready for an hour afterwards, they dawdle so.As to Pa, he gets what he can and goes to the office. He never haswhat you would call a regular breakfast. Priscilla leaves him out theloaf and some milk, when there is any, overnight. Sometimes thereisn't any milk, and sometimes the cat drinks it. But I'm afraid youmust be tired, Miss Summerson, and perhaps you would rather go tobed."
"I am not at all tired, my dear," said I, "and would much prefer togo out."
"If you're sure you would," returned Miss Jellyby, "I'll get mythings on."
Ada said she would go too, and was soon astir. I made a proposal toPeepy, in default of being able to do anything better for him, thathe should let me wash him and afterwards lay him down on my bedagain. To this he submitted with the best grace possible, staring atme during the whole operation as if he never had been, and nevercould again be, so astonished in his life--looking very miserablealso, certainly, but making no complaint, and going snugly to sleepas soon as it was over. At first I was in two minds about taking sucha liberty, but I soon reflected that nobody in the house was likelyto notice it.
What with the bustle of dispatching Peepy and the bustle of gettingmyself ready and helping Ada, I was soon quite in a glow. We foundMiss Jellyby trying to warm herself at the fire in the writing-room,which Priscilla was then lighting with a smutty parlour candlestick,throwing the candle in to make it burn better. Everything was just aswe had left it last night and was evidently intended to remain so.Below-stairs the dinner-cloth had not been taken away, but had beenleft ready for breakfast. Crumbs, dust, and waste-paper were all overthe house. Some pewter pots and a milk-can hung on the area railings;the door stood open; and we met the cook round the corner coming outof a public-house, wiping her mouth. She mentioned, as she passed us,that she had been to see what o'clock it was.
But before we met the cook, we met Richard, who was dancing up anddown Thavies Inn to warm his feet. He was agreeably surprised to seeus stirring so soon and said he would gladly share our walk. So hetook care of Ada, and Miss Jellyby and I went first. I may mentionthat Miss Jellyby had relapsed into her sulky manner and that Ireally should not have thought she liked me much unless she had toldme so.
"Where would you wish to go?" she asked.
"Anywhere, my dear," I replied.
"Anywhere's nowhere," said Miss Jellyby, stopping perversely.
"Let us go somewhere at any rate," said I.
She then walked me on very fast.
"I don't care!" she said. "Now, you are my witness, Miss Summerson, Isay I don't care--but if he was to come to our house with his great,shining, lumpy forehead night after night till he was as old asMethuselah, I wouldn't have anything to say to him. Such ASSES as heand Ma make of themselves!"
"My dear!" I remonstrated, in allusion to the epithet and thevigorous emphasis Miss Jellyby set upon it. "Your duty as a child--"
"Oh! Don't talk of duty as a child, Miss Summerson; where's Ma's dutyas a parent? All made over to the public and Africa, I suppose! Thenlet the public and Africa show duty as a child; it's much more theiraffair than mine. You are shocked, I dare say! Very well, so am Ishocked too; so we are both shocked, and there's an end of it!"
She walked me on faster yet.
"But for all that, I say again, he may come, and come, and come, andI won't have anything to say to him. I can't bear him. If there's anystuff in the world that I hate and detest, it's the stuff he and Matalk. I wonder the very paving-stones opposite our house can have thepatience to stay there and be a witness of such inconsistencies andcontradictions as all that sounding nonsense, and Ma's management!"
I could not but understand her to refer to Mr. Quale, the younggentleman who had appeared after dinner yesterday. I was saved thedisagreeable necessity of pursuing the subject by Richard and Adacoming up at a round pace, laughing and asking us if we meant to runa race. Thus interrupted, Miss Jellyby became silent and walkedmoodily on at my side while I admired the long successions andvarieties of streets, the quantity of people already going to andfro, the number of vehicles passing and repassing, the busypreparations in the setting forth of shop windows and the sweepingout of shops, and the extraordinary creatures in rags secretlygroping among the swept-out rubbish for pins and other refuse.
"So, cousin," said the cheerful voice of Richard to Ada behind me."We are never to get out of Chancery! We have come by another way toour place of meeting yesterday, and--by the Great Seal, here's theold lady again!"
Truly, there she was, immediately in front of us, curtsying, andsmiling, and saying with her yesterday's air of patronage, "The wardsin Jarndyce! Ve-ry happy, I am sure!"
"You are out early, ma'am," said I as she curtsied to me.
"Ye-es! I usually walk here early. Before the court sits. It'sretired. I collect my thoughts here for the business of the day,"said the old lady mincingly. "The business of the day requires agreat deal of thought. Chancery justice is so ve-ry difficult tofollow."
"Who's this, Miss Summerson?" whispered Miss Jellyby, drawing my armtighter through her own.
The little old lady's hearing was remarkably quick. She answered forherself directly.
"A suitor, my child. At your service. I have the honour to attendcourt regularly. With my documents. Have I the pleasure of addressinganother of the youthful parties in Jarndyce?" said the old lady,recovering herself, with her head on one side, from a very lowcurtsy.
Richard, anxious to atone for his thoughtlessness of yesterday,good-naturedly explained that Miss Jellyby was not connected with thesuit.
"Ha!" said the old lady. "She does not expect a judgment? She willstill grow old. But not so old. Oh, dear, no! This is the garden ofLincoln's Inn. I call it my garden. It is quite a bower in thesummer-time. Where the birds sing melodiously. I pass the greaterpart of the long vacation here. In contemplation. You find the longvacation exceedingly long, don't you?"
We said yes, as she seemed to expect us to say so.
"When the leaves are falling from the trees and there are no moreflowers in bloom to make up into nosegays for the Lord Chancellor'scourt," said the old lady, "the vacation is fulfilled and the sixthseal, mentioned in the Revelations, again prevails. Pray come and seemy lodging. It will be a good omen for me. Youth, and hope, andbeauty are very seldom there. It is a long, long time since I had avisit from either."
She had taken my hand, and leading me and Miss Jellyby away, beckonedRichard and Ada to come too. I did not know how to excuse myself andlooked to Richard for aid. As he was half amused and half curious andall in doubt how to get rid of the old lady without offence, shecontinued to lead us away, and he and Ada continued to follow, ourstrange conductress informing us all the time, with much smilingcondescension, that she lived close by.
It was quite true, as it soon appeared. She lived so close by that wehad not time to have done humouring her for a few moments before shewas at home. Slipping us out at a little side gate, the old ladystopped most unexpectedly in a narrow back street, part of somecourts and lanes immediately outside the wall of the inn, and said,"This is my lodging. Pray walk up!"
She had stopped at a shop over which was written KROOK, RAG ANDBOTTLE WAREHOUSE. Also, in long thin letters, KROOK, DEALER IN MARINESTORES. In one part of the window was a picture of a red paper millat which a cart was unloading a quantity of sacks of old rags. Inanother was the inscription BONES BOUGHT. In another, KITCHEN-STUFFBOUGHT. In another, OLD IRON BOUGHT. In another, WASTE-PAPER BOUGHT.In another, LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S WARDROBES BOUGHT. Everythingseemed to be bought and nothing to be sold there. In all parts of thewindow were quantities of dirty bottles--blacking bottles, medicinebottles, ginger-beer and soda-water bottles, pickle bottles, winebottles, ink bottles; I am reminded by mentioning the latter that theshop had in several little particulars the air of being in a legalneighbourhood and of being, as it were, a dirty hanger-on anddisowned relation of the law. There were a great many ink bottles.There was a little tottering bench of shabby old volumes outside thedoor, labelled "Law Books, all at 9d." Some of the inscriptions Ihave enumerated were written in law-hand, like the papers I had seenin Kenge and Carboy's office and the letters I had so long receivedfrom the firm. Among them was one, in the same writing, havingnothing to do with the business of the shop, but announcing that arespectable man aged forty-five wanted engrossing or copying toexecute with neatness and dispatch: Address to Nemo, care of Mr.Krook, within. There were several second-hand bags, blue and red,hanging up. A little way within the shop-door lay heaps of oldcrackled parchment scrolls and discoloured and dog's-earedlaw-papers. I could have fancied that all the rusty keys, of whichthere must have been hundreds huddled together as old iron, had oncebelonged to doors of rooms or strong chests in lawyers' offices. Thelitter of rags tumbled partly into and partly out of a one-leggedwooden scale, hanging without any counterpoise from a beam, mighthave been counsellors' bands and gowns torn up. One had only tofancy, as Richard whispered to Ada and me while we all stood lookingin, that yonder bones in a corner, piled together and picked veryclean, were the bones of clients, to make the picture complete.
As it was still foggy and dark, and as the shop was blinded besidesby the wall of Lincoln's Inn, intercepting the light within a coupleof yards, we should not have seen so much but for a lighted lanternthat an old man in spectacles and a hairy cap was carrying about inthe shop. Turning towards the door, he now caught sight of us. He wasshort, cadaverous, and withered, with his head sunk sideways betweenhis shoulders and the breath issuing in visible smoke from his mouthas if he were on fire within. His throat, chin, and eyebrows were sofrosted with white hairs and so gnarled with veins and puckered skinthat he looked from his breast upward like some old root in a fall ofsnow.
"Hi, hi!" said the old man, coming to the door. "Have you anything tosell?"
We naturally drew back and glanced at our conductress, who had beentrying to open the house-door with a key she had taken from herpocket, and to whom Richard now said that as we had had the pleasureof seeing where she lived, we would leave her, being pressed fortime. But she was not to be so easily left. She became sofantastically and pressingly earnest in her entreaties that we wouldwalk up and see her apartment for an instant, and was so bent, in herharmless way, on leading me in, as part of the good omen she desired,that I (whatever the others might do) saw nothing for it but tocomply. I suppose we were all more or less curious; at any rate, whenthe old man added his persuasions to hers and said, "Aye, aye! Pleaseher! It won't take a minute! Come in, come in! Come in through theshop if t'other door's out of order!" we all went in, stimulated byRichard's laughing encouragement and relying on his protection.
"My landlord, Krook," said the little old lady, condescending to himfrom her lofty station as she presented him to us. "He is calledamong the neighbours the Lord Chancellor. His shop is called theCourt of Chancery. He is a very eccentric person. He is very odd. Oh,I assure you he is very odd!"
She shook her head a great many times and tapped her forehead withher finger to express to us that we must have the goodness to excusehim, "For he is a little--you know--M!" said the old lady with greatstateliness. The old man overheard, and laughed.
"It's true enough," he said, going before us with the lantern, "thatthey call me the Lord Chancellor and call my shop Chancery. And whydo you think they call me the Lord Chancellor and my shop Chancery?"
"I don't know, I am sure!" said Richard rather carelessly.
"You see," said the old man, stopping and turning round, "they--Hi!Here's lovely hair! I have got three sacks of ladies' hair below, butnone so beautiful and fine as this. What colour, and what texture!"
"That'll do, my good friend!" said Richard, strongly disapproving ofhis having drawn one of Ada's tresses through his yellow hand. "Youcan admire as the rest of us do without taking that liberty."
The old man darted at him a sudden look which even called myattention from Ada, who, startled and blushing, was so remarkablybeautiful that she seemed to fix the wandering attention of thelittle old lady herself. But as Ada interposed and laughingly saidshe could only feel proud of such genuine admiration, Mr. Krookshrunk into his former self as suddenly as he had leaped out of it.
"You see, I have so many things here," he resumed, holding up thelantern, "of so many kinds, and all as the neighbours think (but THEYknow nothing), wasting away and going to rack and ruin, that that'swhy they have given me and my place a christening. And I have so manyold parchmentses and papers in my stock. And I have a liking for rustand must and cobwebs. And all's fish that comes to my net. And Ican't abear to part with anything I once lay hold of (or so myneighbours think, but what do THEY know?) or to alter anything, or tohave any sweeping, nor scouring, nor cleaning, nor repairing going onabout me. That's the way I've got the ill name of Chancery. I don'tmind. I go to see my noble and learned brother pretty well every day,when he sits in the Inn. He don't notice me, but I notice him.There's no great odds betwixt us. We both grub on in a muddle. Hi,Lady Jane!"
A large grey cat leaped from some neighbouring shelf on his shoulderand startled us all.
"Hi! Show 'em how you scratch. Hi! Tear, my lady!" said her master.
The cat leaped down and ripped at a bundle of rags with her tigerishclaws, with a sound that it set my teeth on edge to hear.
"She'd do as much for any one I was to set her on," said the old man."I deal in cat-skins among other general matters, and hers wasoffered to me. It's a very fine skin, as you may see, but I didn'thave it stripped off! THAT warn't like Chancery practice though, saysyou!"
He had by this time led us across the shop, and now opened a door inthe back part of it, leading to the house-entry. As he stood with hishand upon the lock, the little old lady graciously observed to himbefore passing out, "That will do, Krook. You mean well, but aretiresome. My young friends are pressed for time. I have none to sparemyself, having to attend court very soon. My young friends are thewards in Jarndyce."
"Jarndyce!" said the old man with a start.
"Jarndyce and Jarndyce. The great suit, Krook," returned his lodger.
"Hi!" exclaimed the old man in a tone of thoughtful amazement andwith a wider stare than before. "Think of it!"
He seemed so rapt all in a moment and looked so curiously at us thatRichard said, "Why, you appear to trouble yourself a good deal aboutthe causes before your noble and learned brother, the otherChancellor!"
"Yes," said the old man abstractedly. "Sure! YOUR name now will be--"
"Richard Carstone."
"Carstone," he repeated, slowly checking off that name upon hisforefinger; and each of the others he went on to mention upon aseparate finger. "Yes. There was the name of Barbary, and the name ofClare, and the name of Dedlock, too, I think."
"He knows as much of the cause as the real salaried Chancellor!" saidRichard, quite astonished, to Ada and me.
"Aye!" said the old man, coming slowly out of his abstraction. "Yes!Tom Jarndyce--you'll excuse me, being related; but he was never knownabout court by any other name, and was as well known there as--she isnow," nodding slightly at his lodger. "Tom Jarndyce was often inhere. He got into a restless habit of strolling about when the causewas on, or expected, talking to the little shopkeepers and telling'em to keep out of Chancery, whatever they did. 'For,' says he, 'it'sbeing ground to bits in a slow mill; it's being roasted at a slowfire; it's being stung to death by single bees; it's being drowned bydrops; it's going mad by grains.' He was as near making away withhimself, just where the young lady stands, as near could be."
We listened with horror.
"He come in at the door," said the old man, slowly pointing animaginary track along the shop, "on the day he did it--the wholeneighbourhood had said for months before that he would do it, of acertainty sooner or later--he come in at the door that day, andwalked along there, and sat himself on a bench that stood there, andasked me (you'll judge I was a mortal sight younger then) to fetchhim a pint of wine. 'For,' says he, 'Krook, I am much depressed; mycause is on again, and I think I'm nearer judgment than I ever was.'I hadn't a mind to leave him alone; and I persuaded him to go to thetavern over the way there, t'other side my lane (I mean ChanceryLane); and I followed and looked in at the window, and saw him,comfortable as I thought, in the arm-chair by the fire, and companywith him. I hadn't hardly got back here when I heard a shot goechoing and rattling right away into the inn. I ran out--neighboursran out--twenty of us cried at once, 'Tom Jarndyce!'"
The old man stopped, looked hard at us, looked down into the lantern,blew the light out, and shut the lantern up.
"We were right, I needn't tell the present hearers. Hi! To be sure,how the neighbourhood poured into court that afternoon while thecause was on! How my noble and learned brother, and all the rest of'em, grubbed and muddled away as usual and tried to look as if theyhadn't heard a word of the last fact in the case or as if theyhad--Oh, dear me!--nothing at all to do with it if they had heard ofit by any chance!"
Ada's colour had entirely left her, and Richard was scarcely lesspale. Nor could I wonder, judging even from my emotions, and I was noparty in the suit, that to hearts so untried and fresh it was a shockto come into the inheritance of a protracted misery, attended in theminds of many people with such dreadful recollections. I had anotheruneasiness, in the application of the painful story to the poorhalf-witted creature who had brought us there; but, to my surprise,she seemed perfectly unconscious of that and only led the wayupstairs again, informing us with the toleration of a superiorcreature for the infirmities of a common mortal that her landlord was"a little M, you know!"
She lived at the top of the house, in a pretty large room, from whichshe had a glimpse of Lincoln's Inn Hall. This seemed to have been herprincipal inducement, originally, for taking up her residence there.She could look at it, she said, in the night, especially in themoonshine. Her room was clean, but very, very bare. I noticed thescantiest necessaries in the way of furniture; a few old prints frombooks, of Chancellors and barristers, wafered against the wall; andsome half-dozen reticles and work-bags, "containing documents," asshe informed us. There were neither coals nor ashes in the grate, andI saw no articles of clothing anywhere, nor any kind of food. Upon ashelf in an open cupboard were a plate or two, a cup or two, and soforth, but all dry and empty. There was a more affecting meaning inher pinched appearance, I thought as I looked round, than I hadunderstood before.
"Extremely honoured, I am sure," said our poor hostess with thegreatest suavity, "by this visit from the wards in Jarndyce. And verymuch indebted for the omen. It is a retired situation. Considering. Iam limited as to situation. In consequence of the necessity ofattending on the Chancellor. I have lived here many years. I pass mydays in court, my evenings and my nights here. I find the nightslong, for I sleep but little and think much. That is, of course,unavoidable, being in Chancery. I am sorry I cannot offer chocolate.I expect a judgment shortly and shall then place my establishment ona superior footing. At present, I don't mind confessing to the wardsin Jarndyce (in strict confidence) that I sometimes find it difficultto keep up a genteel appearance. I have felt the cold here. I havefelt something sharper than cold. It matters very little. Pray excusethe introduction of such mean topics."
She partly drew aside the curtain of the long, low garret window andcalled our attention to a number of bird-cages hanging there, somecontaining several birds. There were larks, linnets, andgoldfinches--I should think at least twenty.
"I began to keep the little creatures," she said, "with an objectthat the wards will readily comprehend. With the intention ofrestoring them to liberty. When my judgment should be given. Ye-es!They die in prison, though. Their lives, poor silly things, are soshort in comparison with Chancery proceedings that, one by one, thewhole collection has died over and over again. I doubt, do you know,whether one of these, though they are all young, will live to befree! Ve-ry mortifying, is it not?"
Although she sometimes asked a question, she never seemed to expect areply, but rambled on as if she were in the habit of doing so when noone but herself was present.
"Indeed," she pursued, "I positively doubt sometimes, I do assureyou, whether while matters are still unsettled, and the sixth orGreat Seal still prevails, I may not one day be found lying stark andsenseless here, as I have found so many birds!"
Richard, answering what he saw in Ada's compassionate eyes, took theopportunity of laying some money, softly and unobserved, on thechimney-piece. We all drew nearer to the cages, feigning to examinethe birds.
"I can't allow them to sing much," said the little old lady, "for(you'll think this curious) I find my mind confused by the idea thatthey are singing while I am following the arguments in court. And mymind requires to be so very clear, you know! Another time, I'll tellyou their names. Not at present. On a day of such good omen, theyshall sing as much as they like. In honour of youth," a smile andcurtsy, "hope," a smile and curtsy, "and beauty," a smile and curtsy."There! We'll let in the full light."
The birds began to stir and chirp.
"I cannot admit the air freely," said the little old lady--the roomwas close, and would have been the better for it--"because the catyou saw downstairs, called Lady Jane, is greedy for their lives. Shecrouches on the parapet outside for hours and hours. I havediscovered," whispering mysteriously, "that her natural cruelty issharpened by a jealous fear of their regaining their liberty. Inconsequence of the judgment I expect being shortly given. She is slyand full of malice. I half believe, sometimes, that she is no cat,but the wolf of the old saying. It is so very difficult to keep herfrom the door."
Some neighbouring bells, reminding the poor soul that it washalf-past nine, did more for us in the way of bringing our visit toan end than we could easily have done for ourselves. She hurriedlytook up her little bag of documents, which she had laid upon thetable on coming in, and asked if we were also going into court. Onour answering no, and that we would on no account detain her, sheopened the door to attend us downstairs.
"With such an omen, it is even more necessary than usual that Ishould be there before the Chancellor comes in," said she, "for hemight mention my case the first thing. I have a presentiment that heWILL mention it the first thing this morning."
She stopped to tell us in a whisper as we were going down that thewhole house was filled with strange lumber which her landlord hadbought piecemeal and had no wish to sell, in consequence of being alittle M. This was on the first floor. But she had made a previousstoppage on the second floor and had silently pointed at a dark doorthere.
"The only other lodger," she now whispered in explanation, "alaw-writer. The children in the lanes here say he has sold himself tothe devil. I don't know what he can have done with the money. Hush!"
She appeared to mistrust that the lodger might hear her even there,and repeating "Hush!" went before us on tiptoe as though even thesound of her footsteps might reveal to him what she had said.
Passing through the shop on our way out, as we had passed through iton our way in, we found the old man storing a quantity of packets ofwaste-paper in a kind of well in the floor. He seemed to be workinghard, with the perspiration standing on his forehead, and had a pieceof chalk by him, with which, as he put each separate package orbundle down, he made a crooked mark on the panelling of the wall.
Richard and Ada, and Miss Jellyby, and the little old lady had goneby him, and I was going when he touched me on the arm to stay me, andchalked the letter J upon the wall--in a very curious manner,beginning with the end of the letter and shaping it backward. It wasa capital letter, not a printed one, but just such a letter as anyclerk in Messrs. Kenge and Carboy's office would have made.
"Can you read it?" he asked me with a keen glance.
"Surely," said I. "It's very plain."
"What is it?"
"J."
With another glance at me, and a glance at the door, he rubbed it outand turned an "a" in its place (not a capital letter this time), andsaid, "What's that?"
I told him. He then rubbed that out and turned the letter "r," andasked me the same question. He went on quickly until he had formed inthe same curious manner, beginning at the ends and bottoms of theletters, the word Jarndyce, without once leaving two letters on thewall together.
"What does that spell?" he asked me.
When I told him, he laughed. In the same odd way, yet with the samerapidity, he then produced singly, and rubbed out singly, the lettersforming the words Bleak House. These, in some astonishment, I alsoread; and he laughed again.
"Hi!" said the old man, laying aside the chalk. "I have a turn forcopying from memory, you see, miss, though I can neither read norwrite."
He looked so disagreeable and his cat looked so wickedly at me, as ifI were a blood-relation of the birds upstairs, that I was quiterelieved by Richard's appearing at the door and saying, "MissSummerson, I hope you are not bargaining for the sale of your hair.Don't be tempted. Three sacks below are quite enough for Mr. Krook!"
I lost no time in wishing Mr. Krook good morning and joining myfriends outside, where we parted with the little old lady, who gaveus her blessing with great ceremony and renewed her assurance ofyesterday in reference to her intention of settling estates on Adaand me. Before we finally turned out of those lanes, we looked backand saw Mr. Krook standing at his shop-door, in his spectacles,looking after us, with his cat upon his shoulder, and her tailsticking up on one side of his hairy cap like a tall feather.
"Quite an adventure for a morning in London!" said Richard with asigh. "Ah, cousin, cousin, it's a weary word this Chancery!"
"It is to me, and has been ever since I can remember," returned Ada."I am grieved that I should be the enemy--as I suppose I am--of agreat number of relations and others, and that they should be myenemies--as I suppose they are--and that we should all be ruining oneanother without knowing how or why and be in constant doubt anddiscord all our lives. It seems very strange, as there must be rightsomewhere, that an honest judge in real earnest has not been able tofind out through all these years where it is."
"Ah, cousin!" said Richard. "Strange, indeed! All this wasteful,wanton chess-playing IS very strange. To see that composed courtyesterday jogging on so serenely and to think of the wretchedness ofthe pieces on the board gave me the headache and the heartache bothtogether. My head ached with wondering how it happened, if men wereneither fools nor rascals; and my heart ached to think they couldpossibly be either. But at all events, Ada--I may call you Ada?"
"Of course you may, cousin Richard."
"At all events, Chancery will work none of its bad influences on US.We have happily been brought together, thanks to our good kinsman,and it can't divide us now!"
"Never, I hope, cousin Richard!" said Ada gently.
Miss Jellyby gave my arm a squeeze and me a very significant look. Ismiled in return, and we made the rest of the way back verypleasantly.
In half an hour after our arrival, Mrs. Jellyby appeared; and in thecourse of an hour the various things necessary for breakfaststraggled one by one into the dining-room. I do not doubt that Mrs.Jellyby had gone to bed and got up in the usual manner, but shepresented no appearance of having changed her dress. She was greatlyoccupied during breakfast, for the morning's post brought a heavycorrespondence relative to Borrioboola-Gha, which would occasion her(she said) to pass a busy day. The children tumbled about, andnotched memoranda of their accidents in their legs, which wereperfect little calendars of distress; and Peepy was lost for an hourand a half, and brought home from Newgate market by a policeman. Theequable manner in which Mrs. Jellyby sustained both his absence andhis restoration to the family circle surprised us all.
She was by that time perseveringly dictating to Caddy, and Caddy wasfast relapsing into the inky condition in which we had found her. Atone o'clock an open carriage arrived for us, and a cart for ourluggage. Mrs. Jellyby charged us with many remembrances to her goodfriend Mr. Jarndyce; Caddy left her desk to see us depart, kissed mein the passage, and stood biting her pen and sobbing on the steps;Peepy, I am happy to say, was asleep and spared the pain ofseparation (I was not without misgivings that he had gone to Newgatemarket in search of me); and all the other children got up behind thebarouche and fell off, and we saw them, with great concern, scatteredover the surface of Thavies Inn as we rolled out of its precincts.



CHAPTER VI
Quite at Home

The day had brightened very much, and still brightened as we wentwestward. We went our way through the sunshine and the fresh air,wondering more and more at the extent of the streets, the brilliancyof the shops, the great traffic, and the crowds of people whom thepleasanter weather seemed to have brought out like many-colouredflowers. By and by we began to leave the wonderful city and toproceed through suburbs which, of themselves, would have made apretty large town in my eyes; and at last we got into a real countryroad again, with windmills, rick-yards, milestones, farmers' waggons,scents of old hay, swinging signs, and horse troughs: trees, fields,and hedge-rows. It was delightful to see the green landscape beforeus and the immense metropolis behind; and when a waggon with a trainof beautiful horses, furnished with red trappings and clear-soundingbells, came by us with its music, I believe we could all three havesung to the bells, so cheerful were the influences around.
"The whole road has been reminding me of my namesake Whittington,"said Richard, "and that waggon is the finishing touch. Halloa! What'sthe matter?"
We had stopped, and the waggon had stopped too. Its music changed asthe horses came to a stand, and subsided to a gentle tinkling, exceptwhen a horse tossed his head or shook himself and sprinkled off alittle shower of bell-ringing.
"Our postilion is looking after the waggoner," said Richard, "and thewaggoner is coming back after us. Good day, friend!" The waggoner wasat our coach-door. "Why, here's an extraordinary thing!" addedRichard, looking closely at the man. "He has got your name, Ada, inhis hat!"
He had all our names in his hat. Tucked within the band were threesmall notes--one addressed to Ada, one to Richard, one to me. Thesethe waggoner delivered to each of us respectively, reading the namealoud first. In answer to Richard's inquiry from whom they came, hebriefly answered, "Master, sir, if you please"; and putting on hishat again (which was like a soft bowl), cracked his whip, re-awakenedhis music, and went melodiously away.
"Is that Mr. Jarndyce's waggon?" said Richard, calling to ourpost-boy.
"Yes, sir," he replied. "Going to London."
We opened the notes. Each was a counterpart of the other andcontained these words in a solid, plain hand.

   I look forward, my dear, to our meeting easily and   without constraint on either side. I therefore have to   propose that we meet as old friends and take the past for   granted. It will be a relief to you possibly, and to me   certainly, and so my love to you.
   John Jarndyce

I had perhaps less reason to be surprised than either of mycompanions, having never yet enjoyed an opportunity of thanking onewho had been my benefactor and sole earthly dependence through somany years. I had not considered how I could thank him, my gratitudelying too deep in my heart for that; but I now began to consider howI could meet him without thanking him, and felt it would be verydifficult indeed.
The notes revived in Richard and Ada a general impression that theyboth had, without quite knowing how they came by it, that theircousin Jarndyce could never bear acknowledgments for any kindness heperformed and that sooner than receive any he would resort to themost singular expedients and evasions or would even run away. Adadimly remembered to have heard her mother tell, when she was a verylittle child, that he had once done her an act of uncommon generosityand that on her going to his house to thank him, he happened to seeher through a window coming to the door, and immediately escaped bythe back gate, and was not heard of for three months. This discourseled to a great deal more on the same theme, and indeed it lasted usall day, and we talked of scarcely anything else. If we did by anychance diverge into another subject, we soon returned to this, andwondered what the house would be like, and when we should get there,and whether we should see Mr. Jarndyce as soon as we arrived or aftera delay, and what he would say to us, and what we should say to him.All of which we wondered about, over and over again.
The roads were very heavy for the horses, but the pathway wasgenerally good, so we alighted and walked up all the hills, and likedit so well that we prolonged our walk on the level ground when we gotto the top. At Barnet there were other horses waiting for us, but asthey had only just been fed, we had to wait for them too, and got along fresh walk over a common and an old battle-field before thecarriage came up. These delays so protracted the journey that theshort day was spent and the long night had closed in before we cameto St. Albans, near to which town Bleak House was, we knew.
By that time we were so anxious and nervous that even Richardconfessed, as we rattled over the stones of the old street, tofeeling an irrational desire to drive back again. As to Ada and me,whom he had wrapped up with great care, the night being sharp andfrosty, we trembled from head to foot. When we turned out of thetown, round a corner, and Richard told us that the post-boy, who hadfor a long time sympathized with our heightened expectation, waslooking back and nodding, we both stood up in the carriage (Richardholding Ada lest she should be jolted down) and gazed round upon theopen country and the starlight night for our destination. There was alight sparkling on the top of a hill before us, and the driver,pointing to it with his whip and crying, "That's Bleak House!" puthis horses into a canter and took us forward at such a rate, uphillthough it was, that the wheels sent the road drift flying about ourheads like spray from a water-mill. Presently we lost the light,presently saw it, presently lost it, presently saw it, and turnedinto an avenue of trees and cantered up towards where it was beamingbrightly. It was in a window of what seemed to be an old-fashionedhouse with three peaks in the roof in front and a circular sweepleading to the porch. A bell was rung as we drew up, and amidst thesound of its deep voice in the still air, and the distant barking ofsome dogs, and a gush of light from the opened door, and the smokingand steaming of the heated horses, and the quickened beating of ourown hearts, we alighted in no inconsiderable confusion.
"Ada, my love, Esther, my dear, you are welcome. I rejoice to seeyou! Rick, if I had a hand to spare at present, I would give it you!"
The gentleman who said these words in a clear, bright, hospitablevoice had one of his arms round Ada's waist and the other round mine,and kissed us both in a fatherly way, and bore us across the hallinto a ruddy little room, all in a glow with a blazing fire. Here hekissed us again, and opening his arms, made us sit down side by sideon a sofa ready drawn out near the hearth. I felt that if we had beenat all demonstrative, he would have run away in a moment.
"Now, Rick!" said he. "I have a hand at liberty. A word in earnest isas good as a speech. I am heartily glad to see you. You are at home.Warm yourself!"
Richard shook him by both hands with an intuitive mixture of respectand frankness, and only saying (though with an earnestness thatrather alarmed me, I was so afraid of Mr. Jarndyce's suddenlydisappearing), "You are very kind, sir! We are very much obliged toyou!" laid aside his hat and coat and came up to the fire.
"And how did you like the ride? And how did you like Mrs. Jellyby, mydear?" said Mr. Jarndyce to Ada.
While Ada was speaking to him in reply, I glanced (I need not saywith how much interest) at his face. It was a handsome, lively, quickface, full of change and motion; and his hair was a silverediron-grey. I took him to be nearer sixty than fifty, but he wasupright, hearty, and robust. From the moment of his first speaking tous his voice had connected itself with an association in my mind thatI could not define; but now, all at once, a something sudden in hismanner and a pleasant expression in his eyes recalled the gentlemanin the stagecoach six years ago on the memorable day of my journey toReading. I was certain it was he. I never was so frightened in mylife as when I made the discovery, for he caught my glance, andappearing to read my thoughts, gave such a look at the door that Ithought we had lost him.
However, I am happy to say he remained where he was, and asked mewhat I thought of Mrs. Jellyby.
"She exerts herself very much for Africa, sir," I said.
"Nobly!" returned Mr. Jarndyce. "But you answer like Ada." Whom I hadnot heard. "You all think something else, I see."
"We rather thought," said I, glancing at Richard and Ada, whoentreated me with their eyes to speak, "that perhaps she was a littleunmindful of her home."
"Floored!" cried Mr. Jarndyce.
I was rather alarmed again.
"Well! I want to know your real thoughts, my dear. I may have sentyou there on purpose."
"We thought that, perhaps," said I, hesitating, "it is right to beginwith the obligations of home, sir; and that, perhaps, while those areoverlooked and neglected, no other duties can possibly be substitutedfor them."
"The little Jellybys," said Richard, coming to my relief, "arereally--I can't help expressing myself strongly, sir--in a devil of astate."
"She means well," said Mr. Jarndyce hastily. "The wind's in theeast."
"It was in the north, sir, as we came down," observed Richard.
"My dear Rick," said Mr. Jarndyce, poking the fire, "I'll take anoath it's either in the east or going to be. I am always conscious ofan uncomfortable sensation now and then when the wind is blowing inthe east."
"Rheumatism, sir?" said Richard.
"I dare say it is, Rick. I believe it is. And so the little Jell--Ihad my doubts about 'em--are in a--oh, Lord, yes, it's easterly!"said Mr. Jarndyce.
He had taken two or three undecided turns up and down while utteringthese broken sentences, retaining the poker in one hand and rubbinghis hair with the other, with a good-natured vexation at once sowhimsical and so lovable that I am sure we were more delighted withhim than we could possibly have expressed in any words. He gave anarm to Ada and an arm to me, and bidding Richard bring a candle, wasleading the way out when he suddenly turned us all back again.
"Those little Jellybys. Couldn't you--didn't you--now, if it hadrained sugar-plums, or three-cornered raspberry tarts, or anything ofthat sort!" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Oh, cousin--" Ada hastily began.
"Good, my pretty pet. I like cousin. Cousin John, perhaps, isbetter."
"Then, cousin John--" Ada laughingly began again.
"Ha, ha! Very good indeed!" said Mr. Jarndyce with great enjoyment."Sounds uncommonly natural. Yes, my dear?"
"It did better than that. It rained Esther."
"Aye?" said Mr. Jarndyce. "What did Esther do?"
"Why, cousin John," said Ada, clasping her hands upon his arm andshaking her head at me across him--for I wanted her to bequiet--"Esther was their friend directly. Esther nursed them, coaxedthem to sleep, washed and dressed them, told them stories, kept themquiet, bought them keepsakes"--My dear girl! I had only gone out withPeepy after he was found and given him a little, tiny horse!--"and,cousin John, she softened poor Caroline, the eldest one, so much andwas so thoughtful for me and so amiable! No, no, I won't becontradicted, Esther dear! You know, you know, it's true!"
The warm-hearted darling leaned across her cousin John and kissed me,and then looking up in his face, boldly said, "At all events, cousinJohn, I WILL thank you for the companion you have given me." I feltas if she challenged him to run away. But he didn't.
"Where did you say the wind was, Rick?" asked Mr. Jarndyce.
"In the north as we came down, sir."
"You are right. There's no east in it. A mistake of mine. Come,girls, come and see your home!"
It was one of those delightfully irregular houses where you go up anddown steps out of one room into another, and where you come upon morerooms when you think you have seen all there are, and where there isa bountiful provision of little halls and passages, and where youfind still older cottage-rooms in unexpected places with latticewindows and green growth pressing through them. Mine, which weentered first, was of this kind, with an up-and-down roof that hadmore corners in it than I ever counted afterwards and a chimney(there was a wood fire on the hearth) paved all around with purewhite tiles, in every one of which a bright miniature of the fire wasblazing. Out of this room, you went down two steps into a charminglittle sitting-room looking down upon a flower-garden, which room washenceforth to belong to Ada and me. Out of this you went up threesteps into Ada's bedroom, which had a fine broad window commanding abeautiful view (we saw a great expanse of darkness lying underneaththe stars), to which there was a hollow window-seat, in which, with aspring-lock, three dear Adas might have been lost at once. Out ofthis room you passed into a little gallery, with which the other bestrooms (only two) communicated, and so, by a little staircase ofshallow steps with a number of corner stairs in it, considering itslength, down into the hall. But if instead of going out at Ada's dooryou came back into my room, and went out at the door by which you hadentered it, and turned up a few crooked steps that branched off in anunexpected manner from the stairs, you lost yourself in passages,with mangles in them, and three-cornered tables, and a native Hinduchair, which was also a sofa, a box, and a bedstead, and looked inevery form something between a bamboo skeleton and a great bird-cage,and had been brought from India nobody knew by whom or when. Fromthese you came on Richard's room, which was part library, partsitting-room, part bedroom, and seemed indeed a comfortable compoundof many rooms. Out of that you went straight, with a little intervalof passage, to the plain room where Mr. Jarndyce slept, all the yearround, with his window open, his bedstead without any furniturestanding in the middle of the floor for more air, and his cold bathgaping for him in a smaller room adjoining. Out of that you came intoanother passage, where there were back-stairs and where you couldhear the horses being rubbed down outside the stable and being toldto "Hold up" and "Get over," as they slipped about very much on theuneven stones. Or you might, if you came out at another door (everyroom had at least two doors), go straight down to the hall again byhalf-a-dozen steps and a low archway, wondering how you got backthere or had ever got out of it.
The furniture, old-fashioned rather than old, like the house, was aspleasantly irregular. Ada's sleeping-room was all flowers--in chintzand paper, in velvet, in needlework, in the brocade of two stiffcourtly chairs which stood, each attended by a little page of a stoolfor greater state, on either side of the fire-place. Our sitting-roomwas green and had framed and glazed upon the walls numbers ofsurprising and surprised birds, staring out of pictures at a realtrout in a case, as brown and shining as if it had been served withgravy; at the death of Captain Cook; and at the whole process ofpreparing tea in China, as depicted by Chinese artists. In my roomthere were oval engravings of the months--ladies haymaking in shortwaists and large hats tied under the chin, for June; smooth-leggednoblemen pointing with cocked-hats to village steeples, for October.Half-length portraits in crayons abounded all through the house, butwere so dispersed that I found the brother of a youthful officer ofmine in the china-closet and the grey old age of my pretty youngbride, with a flower in her bodice, in the breakfast-room. Assubstitutes, I had four angels, of Queen Anne's reign, taking acomplacent gentleman to heaven, in festoons, with some difficulty;and a composition in needlework representing fruit, a kettle, and analphabet. All the movables, from the wardrobes to the chairs andtables, hangings, glasses, even to the pincushions and scent-bottleson the dressing-tables, displayed the same quaint variety. Theyagreed in nothing but their perfect neatness, their display of thewhitest linen, and their storing-up, wheresoever the existence of adrawer, small or large, rendered it possible, of quantities ofrose-leaves and sweet lavender. Such, with its illuminated windows,softened here and there by shadows of curtains, shining out upon thestarlight night; with its light, and warmth, and comfort; with itshospitable jingle, at a distance, of preparations for dinner; withthe face of its generous master brightening everything we saw; andjust wind enough without to sound a low accompaniment to everythingwe heard, were our first impressions of Bleak House.
"I am glad you like it," said Mr. Jarndyce when he had brought usround again to Ada's sitting-room. "It makes no pretensions, but itis a comfortable little place, I hope, and will be more so with suchbright young looks in it. You have barely half an hour before dinner.There's no one here but the finest creature upon earth--a child."
"More children, Esther!" said Ada.
"I don't mean literally a child," pursued Mr. Jarndyce; "not a childin years. He is grown up--he is at least as old as I am--but insimplicity, and freshness, and enthusiasm, and a fine guilelessinaptitude for all worldly affairs, he is a perfect child."
We felt that he must be very interesting.
"He knows Mrs. Jellyby," said Mr. Jarndyce. "He is a musical man, anamateur, but might have been a professional. He is an artist too, anamateur, but might have been a professional. He is a man ofattainments and of captivating manners. He has been unfortunate inhis affairs, and unfortunate in his pursuits, and unfortunate in hisfamily; but he don't care--he's a child!"
"Did you imply that he has children of his own, sir?" inquiredRichard.
"Yes, Rick! Half-a-dozen. More! Nearer a dozen, I should think. Buthe has never looked after them. How could he? He wanted somebody tolook after HIM. He is a child, you know!" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"And have the children looked after themselves at all, sir?" inquiredRichard.
"Why, just as you may suppose," said Mr. Jarndyce, his countenancesuddenly falling. "It is said that the children of the very poor arenot brought up, but dragged up. Harold Skimpole's children havetumbled up somehow or other. The wind's getting round again, I amafraid. I feel it rather!"
Richard observed that the situation was exposed on a sharp night.
"It IS exposed," said Mr. Jarndyce. "No doubt that's the cause. BleakHouse has an exposed sound. But you are coming my way. Come along!"
Our luggage having arrived and being all at hand, I was dressed in afew minutes and engaged in putting my worldly goods away when a maid(not the one in attendance upon Ada, but another, whom I had notseen) brought a basket into my room with two bunches of keys in it,all labelled.
"For you, miss, if you please," said she.
"For me?" said I.
"The housekeeping keys, miss."
I showed my surprise, for she added with some little surprise on herown part, "I was told to bring them as soon as you was alone, miss.Miss Summerson, if I don't deceive myself?"
"Yes," said I. "That is my name."
"The large bunch is the housekeeping, and the little bunch is thecellars, miss. Any time you was pleased to appoint to-morrow morning,I was to show you the presses and things they belong to."
I said I would be ready at half-past six, and after she was gone,stood looking at the basket, quite lost in the magnitude of my trust.Ada found me thus and had such a delightful confidence in me when Ishowed her the keys and told her about them that it would have beeninsensibility and ingratitude not to feel encouraged. I knew, to besure, that it was the dear girl's kindness, but I liked to be sopleasantly cheated.
When we went downstairs, we were presented to Mr. Skimpole, who wasstanding before the fire telling Richard how fond he used to be, inhis school-time, of football. He was a little bright creature with arather large head, but a delicate face and a sweet voice, and therewas a perfect charm in him. All he said was so free from effort andspontaneous and was said with such a captivating gaiety that it wasfascinating to hear him talk. Being of a more slender figure than Mr.Jarndyce and having a richer complexion, with browner hair, he lookedyounger. Indeed, he had more the appearance in all respects of adamaged young man than a well-preserved elderly one. There was aneasy negligence in his manner and even in his dress (his haircarelessly disposed, and his neck-kerchief loose and flowing, as Ihave seen artists paint their own portraits) which I could notseparate from the idea of a romantic youth who had undergone someunique process of depreciation. It struck me as being not at all likethe manner or appearance of a man who had advanced in life by theusual road of years, cares, and experiences.
I gathered from the conversation that Mr. Skimpole had been educatedfor the medical profession and had once lived, in his professionalcapacity, in the household of a German prince. He told us, however,that as he had always been a mere child in point of weights andmeasures and had never known anything about them (except that theydisgusted him), he had never been able to prescribe with therequisite accuracy of detail. In fact, he said, he had no head fordetail. And he told us, with great humour, that when he was wanted tobleed the prince or physic any of his people, he was generally foundlying on his back in bed, reading the newspapers or makingfancy-sketches in pencil, and couldn't come. The prince, at last,objecting to this, "in which," said Mr. Skimpole, in the frankestmanner, "he was perfectly right," the engagement terminated, and Mr.Skimpole having (as he added with delightful gaiety) "nothing to liveupon but love, fell in love, and married, and surrounded himself withrosy cheeks." His good friend Jarndyce and some other of his goodfriends then helped him, in quicker or slower succession, to severalopenings in life, but to no purpose, for he must confess to two ofthe oldest infirmities in the world: one was that he had no idea oftime, the other that he had no idea of money. In consequence of whichhe never kept an appointment, never could transact any business, andnever knew the value of anything! Well! So he had got on in life, andhere he was! He was very fond of reading the papers, very fond ofmaking fancy-sketches with a pencil, very fond of nature, very fondof art. All he asked of society was to let him live. THAT wasn'tmuch. His wants were few. Give him the papers, conversation, music,mutton, coffee, landscape, fruit in the season, a few sheets ofBristol-board, and a little claret, and he asked no more. He was amere child in the world, but he didn't cry for the moon. He said tothe world, "Go your several ways in peace! Wear red coats, bluecoats, lawn sleeves; put pens behind your ears, wear aprons; go afterglory, holiness, commerce, trade, any object you prefer; only--letHarold Skimpole live!"
All this and a great deal more he told us, not only with theutmost brilliancy and enjoyment, but with a certain vivaciouscandour--speaking of himself as if he were not at all his own affair,as if Skimpole were a third person, as if he knew that Skimpole hadhis singularities but still had his claims too, which were thegeneral business of the community and must not be slighted. He wasquite enchanting. If I felt at all confused at that early time inendeavouring to reconcile anything he said with anything I hadthought about the duties and accountabilities of life (which I am farfrom sure of), I was confused by not exactly understanding why he wasfree of them. That he WAS free of them, I scarcely doubted; he was sovery clear about it himself.
"I covet nothing," said Mr. Skimpole in the same light way."Possession is nothing to me. Here is my friend Jarndyce's excellenthouse. I feel obliged to him for possessing it. I can sketch it andalter it. I can set it to music. When I am here, I have sufficientpossession of it and have neither trouble, cost, nor responsibility.My steward's name, in short, is Jarndyce, and he can't cheat me. Wehave been mentioning Mrs. Jellyby. There is a bright-eyed woman, of astrong will and immense power of business detail, who throws herselfinto objects with surprising ardour! I don't regret that I have not astrong will and an immense power of business detail to throw myselfinto objects with surprising ardour. I can admire her without envy. Ican sympathize with the objects. I can dream of them. I can lie downon the grass--in fine weather--and float along an African river,embracing all the natives I meet, as sensible of the deep silence andsketching the dense overhanging tropical growth as accurately as if Iwere there. I don't know that it's of any direct use my doing so, butit's all I can do, and I do it thoroughly. Then, for heaven's sake,having Harold Skimpole, a confiding child, petitioning you, theworld, an agglomeration of practical people of business habits, tolet him live and admire the human family, do it somehow or other,like good souls, and suffer him to ride his rocking-horse!"
It was plain enough that Mr. Jarndyce had not been neglectful of theadjuration. Mr. Skimpole's general position there would have renderedit so without the addition of what he presently said.
"It's only you, the generous creatures, whom I envy," said Mr.Skimpole, addressing us, his new friends, in an impersonal manner. "Ienvy you your power of doing what you do. It is what I should revelin myself. I don't feel any vulgar gratitude to you. I almost feel asif YOU ought to be grateful to ME for giving you the opportunity ofenjoying the luxury of generosity. I know you like it. For anything Ican tell, I may have come into the world expressly for the purpose ofincreasing your stock of happiness. I may have been born to be abenefactor to you by sometimes giving you an opportunity of assistingme in my little perplexities. Why should I regret my incapacity fordetails and worldly affairs when it leads to such pleasantconsequences? I don't regret it therefore."
Of all his playful speeches (playful, yet always fully meaning whatthey expressed) none seemed to be more to the taste of Mr. Jarndycethan this. I had often new temptations, afterwards, to wonder whetherit was really singular, or only singular to me, that he, who wasprobably the most grateful of mankind upon the least occasion, shouldso desire to escape the gratitude of others.
We were all enchanted. I felt it a merited tribute to the engagingqualities of Ada and Richard that Mr. Skimpole, seeing them for thefirst time, should be so unreserved and should lay himself out to beso exquisitely agreeable. They (and especially Richard) werenaturally pleased, for similar reasons, and considered it no commonprivilege to be so freely confided in by such an attractive man. Themore we listened, the more gaily Mr. Skimpole talked. And what withhis fine hilarious manner and his engaging candour and his genial wayof lightly tossing his own weaknesses about, as if he had said, "I ama child, you know! You are designing people compared with me" (hereally made me consider myself in that light) "but I am gay andinnocent; forget your worldly arts and play with me!" the effect wasabsolutely dazzling.
He was so full of feeling too and had such a delicate sentiment forwhat was beautiful or tender that he could have won a heart by thatalone. In the evening, when I was preparing to make tea and Ada wastouching the piano in the adjoining room and softly humming a tune toher cousin Richard, which they had happened to mention, he came andsat down on the sofa near me and so spoke of Ada that I almost lovedhim.
"She is like the morning," he said. "With that golden hair, thoseblue eyes, and that fresh bloom on her cheek, she is like the summermorning. The birds here will mistake her for it. We will not callsuch a lovely young creature as that, who is a joy to all mankind, anorphan. She is the child of the universe."
Mr. Jarndyce, I found, was standing near us with his hands behind himand an attentive smile upon his face.
"The universe," he observed, "makes rather an indifferent parent, Iam afraid."
"Oh! I don't know!" cried Mr. Skimpole buoyantly.
"I think I do know," said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Well!" cried Mr. Skimpole. "You know the world (which in your senseis the universe), and I know nothing of it, so you shall have yourway. But if I had mine," glancing at the cousins, "there should be nobrambles of sordid realities in such a path as that. It should bestrewn with roses; it should lie through bowers, where there was nospring, autumn, nor winter, but perpetual summer. Age or changeshould never wither it. The base word money should never be breathednear it!"
Mr. Jarndyce patted him on the head with a smile, as if he had beenreally a child, and passing a step or two on, and stopping a moment,glanced at the young cousins. His look was thoughtful, but had abenignant expression in it which I often (how often!) saw again,which has long been engraven on my heart. The room in which theywere, communicating with that in which he stood, was only lighted bythe fire. Ada sat at the piano; Richard stood beside her, bendingdown. Upon the wall, their shadows blended together, surrounded bystrange forms, not without a ghostly motion caught from the unsteadyfire, though reflecting from motionless objects. Ada touched thenotes so softly and sang so low that the wind, sighing away to thedistant hills, was as audible as the music. The mystery of the futureand the little clue afforded to it by the voice of the present seemedexpressed in the whole picture.
But it is not to recall this fancy, well as I remember it, that Irecall the scene. First, I was not quite unconscious of the contrastin respect of meaning and intention between the silent look directedthat way and the flow of words that had preceded it. Secondly, thoughMr. Jarndyce's glance as he withdrew it rested for but a moment onme, I felt as if in that moment he confided to me--and knew that heconfided to me and that I received the confidence--his hope that Adaand Richard might one day enter on a dearer relationship.
Mr. Skimpole could play on the piano and the violoncello, and he wasa composer--had composed half an opera once, but got tired of it--andplayed what he composed with taste. After tea we had quite a littleconcert, in which Richard--who was enthralled by Ada's singing andtold me that she seemed to know all the songs that ever werewritten--and Mr. Jarndyce, and I were the audience. After a littlewhile I missed first Mr. Skimpole and afterwards Richard, and while Iwas thinking how could Richard stay away so long and lose so much,the maid who had given me the keys looked in at the door, saying, "Ifyou please, miss, could you spare a minute?"
When I was shut out with her in the hall, she said, holding up herhands, "Oh, if you please, miss, Mr. Carstone says would you comeupstairs to Mr. Skimpole's room. He has been took, miss!"
"Took?" said I.
"Took, miss. Sudden," said the maid.
I was apprehensive that his illness might be of a dangerous kind, butof course I begged her to be quiet and not disturb any one andcollected myself, as I followed her quickly upstairs, sufficiently toconsider what were the best remedies to be applied if it should proveto be a fit. She threw open a door and I went into a chamber, where,to my unspeakable surprise, instead of finding Mr. Skimpole stretchedupon the bed or prostrate on the floor, I found him standing beforethe fire smiling at Richard, while Richard, with a face of greatembarrassment, looked at a person on the sofa, in a white great-coat,with smooth hair upon his head and not much of it, which he waswiping smoother and making less of with a pocket-handkerchief.
"Miss Summerson," said Richard hurriedly, "I am glad you are come.You will be able to advise us. Our friend Mr. Skimpole--don't bealarmed!--is arrested for debt."
"And really, my dear Miss Summerson," said Mr. Skimpole with hisagreeable candour, "I never was in a situation in which thatexcellent sense and quiet habit of method and usefulness, whichanybody must observe in you who has the happiness of being a quarterof an hour in your society, was more needed."
The person on the sofa, who appeared to have a cold in his head, gavesuch a very loud snort that he startled me.
"Are you arrested for much, sir?" I inquired of Mr. Skimpole.
"My dear Miss Summerson," said he, shaking his head pleasantly, "Idon't know. Some pounds, odd shillings, and halfpence, I think, werementioned."
"It's twenty-four pound, sixteen, and sevenpence ha'penny," observedthe stranger. "That's wot it is."
"And it sounds--somehow it sounds," said Mr. Skimpole, "like a smallsum?"
The strange man said nothing but made another snort. It was such apowerful one that it seemed quite to lift him out of his seat.
"Mr. Skimpole," said Richard to me, "has a delicacy in applying to mycousin Jarndyce because he has lately--I think, sir, I understood youthat you had lately--"
"Oh, yes!" returned Mr. Skimpole, smiling. "Though I forgot how muchit was and when it was. Jarndyce would readily do it again, but Ihave the epicure-like feeling that I would prefer a novelty in help,that I would rather," and he looked at Richard and me, "developgenerosity in a new soil and in a new form of flower."
"What do you think will be best, Miss Summerson?" said Richard,aside.
I ventured to inquire, generally, before replying, what would happenif the money were not produced.
"Jail," said the strange man, coolly putting his handkerchief intohis hat, which was on the floor at his feet. "Or Coavinses."
"May I ask, sir, what is--"
"Coavinses?" said the strange man. "A 'ouse."
Richard and I looked at one another again. It was a most singularthing that the arrest was our embarrassment and not Mr. Skimpole's.He observed us with a genial interest, but there seemed, if I mayventure on such a contradiction, nothing selfish in it. He hadentirely washed his hands of the difficulty, and it had become ours.
"I thought," he suggested, as if good-naturedly to help us out, "thatbeing parties in a Chancery suit concerning (as people say) a largeamount of property, Mr. Richard or his beautiful cousin, or both,could sign something, or make over something, or give some sort ofundertaking, or pledge, or bond? I don't know what the business nameof it may be, but I suppose there is some instrument within theirpower that would settle this?"
"Not a bit on it," said the strange man.
"Really?" returned Mr. Skimpole. "That seems odd, now, to one who isno judge of these things!"
"Odd or even," said the stranger gruffly, "I tell you, not a bit onit!"
"Keep your temper, my good fellow, keep your temper!" Mr. Skimpolegently reasoned with him as he made a little drawing of his head onthe fly-leaf of a book. "Don't be ruffled by your occupation. We canseparate you from your office; we can separate the individual fromthe pursuit. We are not so prejudiced as to suppose that in privatelife you are otherwise than a very estimable man, with a great dealof poetry in your nature, of which you may not be conscious."
The stranger only answered with another violent snort, whether inacceptance of the poetry-tribute or in disdainful rejection of it, hedid not express to me.
"Now, my dear Miss Summerson, and my dear Mr. Richard," said Mr.Skimpole gaily, innocently, and confidingly as he looked at hisdrawing with his head on one side, "here you see me utterly incapableof helping myself, and entirely in your hands! I only ask to be free.The butterflies are free. Mankind will surely not deny to HaroldSkimpole what it concedes to the butterflies!"
"My dear Miss Summerson," said Richard in a whisper, "I have tenpounds that I received from Mr. Kenge. I must try what that will do."
I possessed fifteen pounds, odd shillings, which I had saved from myquarterly allowance during several years. I had always thought thatsome accident might happen which would throw me suddenly, without anyrelation or any property, on the world and had always tried to keepsome little money by me that I might not be quite penniless. I toldRichard of my having this little store and having no present need ofit, and I asked him delicately to inform Mr. Skimpole, while I shouldbe gone to fetch it, that we would have the pleasure of paying hisdebt.
When I came back, Mr. Skimpole kissed my hand and seemed quitetouched. Not on his own account (I was again aware of that perplexingand extraordinary contradiction), but on ours, as if personalconsiderations were impossible with him and the contemplation of ourhappiness alone affected him. Richard, begging me, for the greatergrace of the transaction, as he said, to settle with Coavinses (asMr. Skimpole now jocularly called him), I counted out the money andreceived the necessary acknowledgment. This, too, delighted Mr.Skimpole.
His compliments were so delicately administered that I blushed lessthan I might have done and settled with the stranger in the whitecoat without making any mistakes. He put the money in his pocket andshortly said, "Well, then, I'll wish you a good evening, miss.
"My friend," said Mr. Skimpole, standing with his back to the fireafter giving up the sketch when it was half finished, "I should liketo ask you something, without offence."
I think the reply was, "Cut away, then!"
"Did you know this morning, now, that you were coming out on thiserrand?" said Mr. Skimpole.
"Know'd it yes'day aft'noon at tea-time," said Coavinses.
"It didn't affect your appetite? Didn't make you at all uneasy?"
"Not a bit," said Coavinses. "I know'd if you wos missed to-day, youwouldn't be missed to-morrow. A day makes no such odds."
"But when you came down here," proceeded Mr. Skimpole, "it was a fineday. The sun was shining, the wind was blowing, the lights andshadows were passing across the fields, the birds were singing."
"Nobody said they warn't, in MY hearing," returned Coavinses.
"No," observed Mr. Skimpole. "But what did you think upon the road?"
"Wot do you mean?" growled Coavinses with an appearance of strongresentment. "Think! I've got enough to do, and little enough to getfor it without thinking. Thinking!" (with profound contempt).
"Then you didn't think, at all events," proceeded Mr. Skimpole, "tothis effect: 'Harold Skimpole loves to see the sun shine, loves tohear the wind blow, loves to watch the changing lights and shadows,loves to hear the birds, those choristers in Nature's greatcathedral. And does it seem to me that I am about to deprive HaroldSkimpole of his share in such possessions, which are his onlybirthright!' You thought nothing to that effect?"
"I--certainly--did--NOT," said Coavinses, whose doggedness in utterlyrenouncing the idea was of that intense kind that he could only giveadequate expression to it by putting a long interval between eachword, and accompanying the last with a jerk that might havedislocated his neck.
"Very odd and very curious, the mental process is, in you men ofbusiness!" said Mr. Skimpole thoughtfully. "Thank you, my friend.Good night."
As our absence had been long enough already to seem strangedownstairs, I returned at once and found Ada sitting at work by thefireside talking to her cousin John. Mr. Skimpole presently appeared,and Richard shortly after him. I was sufficiently engaged during theremainder of the evening in taking my first lesson in backgammon fromMr. Jarndyce, who was very fond of the game and from whom I wished ofcourse to learn it as quickly as I could in order that I might be ofthe very small use of being able to play when he had no betteradversary. But I thought, occasionally, when Mr. Skimpole played somefragments of his own compositions or when, both at the piano and thevioloncello, and at our table, he preserved with an absence of alleffort his delightful spirits and his easy flow of conversation, thatRichard and I seemed to retain the transferred impression of havingbeen arrested since dinner and that it was very curious altogether.
It was late before we separated, for when Ada was going at eleveno'clock, Mr. Skimpole went to the piano and rattled hilariously thatthe best of all ways to lengthen our days was to steal a few hoursfrom night, my dear! It was past twelve before he took his candle andhis radiant face out of the room, and I think he might have kept usthere, if he had seen fit, until daybreak. Ada and Richard werelingering for a few moments by the fire, wondering whether Mrs.Jellyby had yet finished her dictation for the day, when Mr.Jarndyce, who had been out of the room, returned.
"Oh, dear me, what's this, what's this!" he said, rubbing his headand walking about with his good-humoured vexation. "What's this theytell me? Rick, my boy, Esther, my dear, what have you been doing? Whydid you do it? How could you do it? How much apiece was it? Thewind's round again. I feel it all over me!"
We neither of us quite knew what to answer.
"Come, Rick, come! I must settle this before I sleep. How much areyou out of pocket? You two made the money up, you know! Why did you?How could you? Oh, Lord, yes, it's due east--must be!"
"Really, sir," said Richard, "I don't think it would be honourable inme to tell you. Mr. Skimpole relied upon us--"
"Lord bless you, my dear boy! He relies upon everybody!" said Mr.Jarndyce, giving his head a great rub and stopping short.
"Indeed, sir?"
"Everybody! And he'll be in the same scrape again next week!" saidMr. Jarndyce, walking again at a great pace, with a candle in hishand that had gone out. "He's always in the same scrape. He was bornin the same scrape. I verily believe that the announcement in thenewspapers when his mother was confined was 'On Tuesday last, at herresidence in Botheration Buildings, Mrs. Skimpole of a son indifficulties.'"
Richard laughed heartily but added, "Still, sir, I don't want toshake his confidence or to break his confidence, and if I submit toyour better knowledge again, that I ought to keep his secret, I hopeyou will consider before you press me any more. Of course, if you dopress me, sir, I shall know I am wrong and will tell you."
"Well!" cried Mr. Jarndyce, stopping again, and making several absentendeavours to put his candlestick in his pocket. "I--here! Take itaway, my dear. I don't know what I am about with it; it's all thewind--invariably has that effect--I won't press you, Rick; you may beright. But really--to get hold of you and Esther--and to squeeze youlike a couple of tender young Saint Michael's oranges! It'll blow agale in the course of the night!"
He was now alternately putting his hands into his pockets as if hewere going to keep them there a long time, and taking them out againand vehemently rubbing them all over his head.
I ventured to take this opportunity of hinting that Mr. Skimpole,being in all such matters quite a child--
"Eh, my dear?" said Mr. Jarndyce, catching at the word.
"Being quite a child, sir," said I, "and so different from otherpeople--"
"You are right!" said Mr. Jarndyce, brightening. "Your woman's withits the mark. He is a child--an absolute child. I told you he was achild, you know, when I first mentioned him."
Certainly! Certainly! we said.
"And he IS a child. Now, isn't he?" asked Mr. Jarndyce, brighteningmore and more.
He was indeed, we said.
"When you come to think of it, it's the height of childishness inyou--I mean me--" said Mr. Jarndyce, "to regard him for a moment as aman. You can't make HIM responsible. The idea of Harold Skimpole withdesigns or plans, or knowledge of consequences! Ha, ha, ha!"
It was so delicious to see the clouds about his bright face clearing,and to see him so heartily pleased, and to know, as it was impossiblenot to know, that the source of his pleasure was the goodness whichwas tortured by condemning, or mistrusting, or secretly accusing anyone, that I saw the tears in Ada's eyes, while she echoed his laugh,and felt them in my own.
"Why, what a cod's head and shoulders I am," said Mr. Jarndyce, "torequire reminding of it! The whole business shows the child frombeginning to end. Nobody but a child would have thought of singlingYOU two out for parties in the affair! Nobody but a child would havethought of YOUR having the money! If it had been a thousand pounds,it would have been just the same!" said Mr. Jarndyce with his wholeface in a glow.
We all confirmed it from our night's experience.
"To be sure, to be sure!" said Mr. Jarndyce. "However, Rick, Esther,and you too, Ada, for I don't know that even your little purse issafe from his inexperience--I must have a promise all round thatnothing of this sort shall ever be done any more. No advances! Noteven sixpences."
We all promised faithfully, Richard with a merry glance at metouching his pocket as if to remind me that there was no danger ofOUR transgressing.
"As to Skimpole," said Mr. Jarndyce, "a habitable doll's house withgood board and a few tin people to get into debt with and borrowmoney of would set the boy up in life. He is in a child's sleep bythis time, I suppose; it's time I should take my craftier head to mymore worldly pillow. Good night, my dears. God bless you!"
He peeped in again, with a smiling face, before we had lighted ourcandles, and said, "Oh! I have been looking at the weather-cock. Ifind it was a false alarm about the wind. It's in the south!" Andwent away singing to himself.
Ada and I agreed, as we talked together for a little while upstairs,that this caprice about the wind was a fiction and that he used thepretence to account for any disappointment he could not conceal,rather than he would blame the real cause of it or disparage ordepreciate any one. We thought this very characteristic of hiseccentric gentleness and of the difference between him and thosepetulant people who make the weather and the winds (particularly thatunlucky wind which he had chosen for such a different purpose) thestalking-horses of their splenetic and gloomy humours.
Indeed, so much affection for him had been added in this one eveningto my gratitude that I hoped I already began to understand himthrough that mingled feeling. Any seeming inconsistencies in Mr.Skimpole or in Mrs. Jellyby I could not expect to be able toreconcile, having so little experience or practical knowledge.Neither did I try, for my thoughts were busy when I was alone, withAda and Richard and with the confidence I had seemed to receiveconcerning them. My fancy, made a little wild by the wind perhaps,would not consent to be all unselfish, either, though I would havepersuaded it to be so if I could. It wandered back to my godmother'shouse and came along the intervening track, raising up shadowyspeculations which had sometimes trembled there in the dark as towhat knowledge Mr. Jarndyce had of my earliest history--even as tothe possibility of his being my father, though that idle dream wasquite gone now.
It was all gone now, I remembered, getting up from the fire. It wasnot for me to muse over bygones, but to act with a cheerful spiritand a grateful heart. So I said to myself, "Esther, Esther, Esther!Duty, my dear!" and gave my little basket of housekeeping keys such ashake that they sounded like little bells and rang me hopefully tobed.



CHAPTER VII
The Ghost's Walk

While Esther sleeps, and while Esther wakes, it is still wet weatherdown at the place in Lincolnshire. The rain is ever falling--drip,drip, drip--by day and night upon the broad flagged terrace-pavement,the Ghost's Walk. The weather is so very bad down in Lincolnshirethat the liveliest imagination can scarcely apprehend its ever beingfine again. Not that there is any superabundant life of imaginationon the spot, for Sir Leicester is not here (and, truly, even if hewere, would not do much for it in that particular), but is in Pariswith my Lady; and solitude, with dusky wings, sits brooding uponChesney Wold.
There may be some motions of fancy among the lower animals at ChesneyWold. The horses in the stables--the long stables in a barren,red-brick court-yard, where there is a great bell in a turret, and aclock with a large face, which the pigeons who live near it and wholove to perch upon its shoulders seem to be always consulting--THEYmay contemplate some mental pictures of fine weather on occasions,and may be better artists at them than the grooms. The old roan, sofamous for cross-country work, turning his large eyeball to thegrated window near his rack, may remember the fresh leaves thatglisten there at other times and the scents that stream in, and mayhave a fine run with the hounds, while the human helper, clearing outthe next stall, never stirs beyond his pitchfork and birch-broom. Thegrey, whose place is opposite the door and who with an impatientrattle of his halter pricks his ears and turns his head so wistfullywhen it is opened, and to whom the opener says, "Woa grey, then,steady! Noabody wants you to-day!" may know it quite as well as theman. The whole seemingly monotonous and uncompanionable half-dozen,stabled together, may pass the long wet hours when the door is shutin livelier communication than is held in the servants' hall or atthe Dedlock Arms, or may even beguile the time by improving (perhapscorrupting) the pony in the loose-box in the corner.
So the mastiff, dozing in his kennel in the court-yard with his largehead on his paws, may think of the hot sunshine when the shadows ofthe stable-buildings tire his patience out by changing and leave himat one time of the day no broader refuge than the shadow of his ownhouse, where he sits on end, panting and growling short, and verymuch wanting something to worry besides himself and his chain. Sonow, half-waking and all-winking, he may recall the house full ofcompany, the coach-houses full of vehicles, the stables full ofhorses, and the out-buildings full of attendants upon horses, untilhe is undecided about the present and comes forth to see how it is.Then, with that impatient shake of himself, he may growl in thespirit, "Rain, rain, rain! Nothing but rain--and no family here!" ashe goes in again and lies down with a gloomy yawn.
So with the dogs in the kennel-buildings across the park, who havetheir restless fits and whose doleful voices when the wind has beenvery obstinate have even made it known in the house itself--upstairs,downstairs, and in my Lady's chamber. They may hunt the wholecountry-side, while the raindrops are pattering round theirinactivity. So the rabbits with their self-betraying tails, friskingin and out of holes at roots of trees, may be lively with ideas ofthe breezy days when their ears are blown about or of those seasonsof interest when there are sweet young plants to gnaw. The turkey inthe poultry-yard, always troubled with a class-grievance (probablyChristmas), may be reminiscent of that summer morning wrongfullytaken from him when he got into the lane among the felled trees,where there was a barn and barley. The discontented goose, who stoopsto pass under the old gateway, twenty feet high, may gabble out, ifwe only knew it, a waddling preference for weather when the gatewaycasts its shadow on the ground.
Be this as it may, there is not much fancy otherwise stirring atChesney Wold. If there be a little at any odd moment, it goes, like alittle noise in that old echoing place, a long way and usually leadsoff to ghosts and mystery.
It has rained so hard and rained so long down in Lincolnshire thatMrs. Rouncewell, the old housekeeper at Chesney Wold, has severaltimes taken off her spectacles and cleaned them to make certain thatthe drops were not upon the glasses. Mrs. Rouncewell might have beensufficiently assured by hearing the rain, but that she is ratherdeaf, which nothing will induce her to believe. She is a fine oldlady, handsome, stately, wonderfully neat, and has such a back andsuch a stomacher that if her stays should turn out when she dies tohave been a broad old-fashioned family fire-grate, nobody who knowsher would have cause to be surprised. Weather affects Mrs. Rouncewelllittle. The house is there in all weathers, and the house, as sheexpresses it, "is what she looks at." She sits in her room (in a sidepassage on the ground floor, with an arched window commanding asmooth quadrangle, adorned at regular intervals with smooth roundtrees and smooth round blocks of stone, as if the trees were going toplay at bowls with the stones), and the whole house reposes on hermind. She can open it on occasion and be busy and fluttered, but itis shut up now and lies on the breadth of Mrs. Rouncewell'siron-bound bosom in a majestic sleep.
It is the next difficult thing to an impossibility to imagine ChesneyWold without Mrs. Rouncewell, but she has only been here fifty years.Ask her how long, this rainy day, and she shall answer "fifty year,three months, and a fortnight, by the blessing of heaven, if I livetill Tuesday." Mr. Rouncewell died some time before the decease ofthe pretty fashion of pig-tails, and modestly hid his own (if he tookit with him) in a corner of the churchyard in the park near themouldy porch. He was born in the market-town, and so was his youngwidow. Her progress in the family began in the time of the last SirLeicester and originated in the still-room.
The present representative of the Dedlocks is an excellent master. Hesupposes all his dependents to be utterly bereft of individualcharacters, intentions, or opinions, and is persuaded that he wasborn to supersede the necessity of their having any. If he were tomake a discovery to the contrary, he would be simply stunned--wouldnever recover himself, most likely, except to gasp and die. But he isan excellent master still, holding it a part of his state to be so.He has a great liking for Mrs. Rouncewell; he says she is a mostrespectable, creditable woman. He always shakes hands with her whenhe comes down to Chesney Wold and when he goes away; and if he werevery ill, or if he were knocked down by accident, or run over, orplaced in any situation expressive of a Dedlock at a disadvantage, hewould say if he could speak, "Leave me, and send Mrs. Rouncewellhere!" feeling his dignity, at such a pass, safer with her than withanybody else.
Mrs. Rouncewell has known trouble. She has had two sons, of whom theyounger ran wild, and went for a soldier, and never came back. Evento this hour, Mrs. Rouncewell's calm hands lose their composure whenshe speaks of him, and unfolding themselves from her stomacher, hoverabout her in an agitated manner as she says what a likely lad, what afine lad, what a gay, good-humoured, clever lad he was! Her secondson would have been provided for at Chesney Wold and would have beenmade steward in due season, but he took, when he was a schoolboy, toconstructing steam-engines out of saucepans and setting birds to drawtheir own water with the least possible amount of labour, soassisting them with artful contrivance of hydraulic pressure that athirsty canary had only, in a literal sense, to put his shoulder tothe wheel and the job was done. This propensity gave Mrs. Rouncewellgreat uneasiness. She felt it with a mother's anguish to be a move inthe Wat Tyler direction, well knowing that Sir Leicester had thatgeneral impression of an aptitude for any art to which smoke and atall chimney might be considered essential. But the doomed youngrebel (otherwise a mild youth, and very persevering), showing no signof grace as he got older but, on the contrary, constructing a modelof a power-loom, she was fain, with many tears, to mention hisbackslidings to the baronet. "Mrs. Rouncewell," said Sir Leicester,"I can never consent to argue, as you know, with any one on anysubject. You had better get rid of your boy; you had better get himinto some Works. The iron country farther north is, I suppose, thecongenial direction for a boy with these tendencies." Farther northhe went, and farther north he grew up; and if Sir Leicester Dedlockever saw him when he came to Chesney Wold to visit his mother, orever thought of him afterwards, it is certain that he only regardedhim as one of a body of some odd thousand conspirators, swarthy andgrim, who were in the habit of turning out by torchlight two or threenights in the week for unlawful purposes.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Rouncewell's son has, in the course of nature andart, grown up, and established himself, and married, and called untohim Mrs. Rouncewell's grandson, who, being out of his apprenticeship,and home from a journey in far countries, whither he was sent toenlarge his knowledge and complete his preparations for the ventureof this life, stands leaning against the chimney-piece this very dayin Mrs. Rouncewell's room at Chesney Wold.
"And, again and again, I am glad to see you, Watt! And, once again, Iam glad to see you, Watt!" says Mrs. Rouncewell. "You are a fineyoung fellow. You are like your poor uncle George. Ah!" Mrs.Rouncewell's hands unquiet, as usual, on this reference.
"They say I am like my father, grandmother."
"Like him, also, my dear--but most like your poor uncle George! Andyour dear father." Mrs. Rouncewell folds her hands again. "He iswell?"
"Thriving, grandmother, in every way."
"I am thankful!" Mrs. Rouncewell is fond of her son but has aplaintive feeling towards him, much as if he were a very honourablesoldier who had gone over to the enemy.
"He is quite happy?" says she.
"Quite."
"I am thankful! So he has brought you up to follow in his ways andhas sent you into foreign countries and the like? Well, he knowsbest. There may be a world beyond Chesney Wold that I don'tunderstand. Though I am not young, either. And I have seen a quantityof good company too!"
"Grandmother," says the young man, changing the subject, "what a verypretty girl that was I found with you just now. You called her Rosa?"
"Yes, child. She is daughter of a widow in the village. Maids are sohard to teach, now-a-days, that I have put her about me young. She'san apt scholar and will do well. She shows the house already, verypretty. She lives with me at my table here."
"I hope I have not driven her away?"
"She supposes we have family affairs to speak about, I dare say. Sheis very modest. It is a fine quality in a young woman. And scarcer,"says Mrs. Rouncewell, expanding her stomacher to its utmost limits,"than it formerly was!"
The young man inclines his head in acknowledgment of the precepts ofexperience. Mrs. Rouncewell listens.
"Wheels!" says she. They have long been audible to the younger earsof her companion. "What wheels on such a day as this, for gracioussake?"
After a short interval, a tap at the door. "Come in!" A dark-eyed,dark-haired, shy, village beauty comes in--so fresh in her rosy andyet delicate bloom that the drops of rain which have beaten on herhair look like the dew upon a flower fresh gathered.
"What company is this, Rosa?" says Mrs. Rouncewell.
"It's two young men in a gig, ma'am, who want to see the house--yes,and if you please, I told them so!" in quick reply to a gesture ofdissent from the housekeeper. "I went to the hall-door and told themit was the wrong day and the wrong hour, but the young man who wasdriving took off his hat in the wet and begged me to bring this cardto you."
"Read it, my dear Watt," says the housekeeper.
Rosa is so shy as she gives it to him that they drop it between themand almost knock their foreheads together as they pick it up. Rosa isshyer than before.
"Mr. Guppy" is all the information the card yields.
"Guppy!" repeats Mrs. Rouncewell, "MR. Guppy! Nonsense, I never heardof him!"
"If you please, he told ME that!" says Rosa. "But he said that he andthe other young gentleman came from London only last night by themail, on business at the magistrates' meeting, ten miles off, thismorning, and that as their business was soon over, and they had hearda great deal said of Chesney Wold, and really didn't know what to dowith themselves, they had come through the wet to see it. They arelawyers. He says he is not in Mr. Tulkinghorn's office, but he issure he may make use of Mr. Tulkinghorn's name if necessary."Finding, now she leaves off, that she has been making quite a longspeech, Rosa is shyer than ever.
Now, Mr. Tulkinghorn is, in a manner, part and parcel of the place,and besides, is supposed to have made Mrs. Rouncewell's will. The oldlady relaxes, consents to the admission of the visitors as a favour,and dismisses Rosa. The grandson, however, being smitten by a suddenwish to see the house himself, proposes to join the party. Thegrandmother, who is pleased that he should have that interest,accompanies him--though to do him justice, he is exceedinglyunwilling to trouble her.
"Much obliged to you, ma'am!" says Mr. Guppy, divesting himself ofhis wet dreadnought in the hall. "Us London lawyers don't often getan out, and when we do, we like to make the most of it, you know."
The old housekeeper, with a gracious severity of deportment, wavesher hand towards the great staircase. Mr. Guppy and his friend followRosa; Mrs. Rouncewell and her grandson follow them; a young gardenergoes before to open the shutters.
As is usually the case with people who go over houses, Mr. Guppy andhis friend are dead beat before they have well begun. They straggleabout in wrong places, look at wrong things, don't care for the rightthings, gape when more rooms are opened, exhibit profound depressionof spirits, and are clearly knocked up. In each successive chamberthat they enter, Mrs. Rouncewell, who is as upright as the houseitself, rests apart in a window-seat or other such nook and listenswith stately approval to Rosa's exposition. Her grandson is soattentive to it that Rosa is shyer than ever--and prettier. Thus theypass on from room to room, raising the pictured Dedlocks for a fewbrief minutes as the young gardener admits the light, andreconsigning them to their graves as he shuts it out again. Itappears to the afflicted Mr. Guppy and his inconsolable friend thatthere is no end to the Dedlocks, whose family greatness seems toconsist in their never having done anything to distinguish themselvesfor seven hundred years.
Even the long drawing-room of Chesney Wold cannot revive Mr. Guppy'sspirits. He is so low that he droops on the threshold and has hardlystrength of mind to enter. But a portrait over the chimney-piece,painted by the fashionable artist of the day, acts upon him like acharm. He recovers in a moment. He stares at it with uncommoninterest; he seems to be fixed and fascinated by it.
"Dear me!" says Mr. Guppy. "Who's that?"
"The picture over the fire-place," says Rosa, "is the portrait of thepresent Lady Dedlock. It is considered a perfect likeness, and thebest work of the master."
"Blest," says Mr. Guppy, staring in a kind of dismay at his friend,"if I can ever have seen her. Yet I know her! Has the picture beenengraved, miss?"
"The picture has never been engraved. Sir Leicester has alwaysrefused permission."
"Well!" says Mr. Guppy in a low voice. "I'll be shot if it ain't verycurious how well I know that picture! So that's Lady Dedlock, is it!"
"The picture on the right is the present Sir Leicester Dedlock. Thepicture on the left is his father, the late Sir Leicester."
Mr. Guppy has no eyes for either of these magnates. "It'sunaccountable to me," he says, still staring at the portrait, "howwell I know that picture! I'm dashed," adds Mr. Guppy, looking round,"if I don't think I must have had a dream of that picture, you know!"
As no one present takes any especial interest in Mr. Guppy's dreams,the probability is not pursued. But he still remains so absorbed bythe portrait that he stands immovable before it until the younggardener has closed the shutters, when he comes out of the room in adazed state that is an odd though a sufficient substitute forinterest and follows into the succeeding rooms with a confused stare,as if he were looking everywhere for Lady Dedlock again.
He sees no more of her. He sees her rooms, which are the last shown,as being very elegant, and he looks out of the windows from which shelooked out, not long ago, upon the weather that bored her to death.All things have an end, even houses that people take infinite painsto see and are tired of before they begin to see them. He has come tothe end of the sight, and the fresh village beauty to the end of herdescription; which is always this: "The terrace below is muchadmired. It is called, from an old story in the family, the Ghost'sWalk."
"No?" says Mr. Guppy, greedily curious. "What's the story, miss? Isit anything about a picture?"
"Pray tell us the story," says Watt in a half whisper.
"I don't know it, sir." Rosa is shyer than ever.
"It is not related to visitors; it is almost forgotten," says thehousekeeper, advancing. "It has never been more than a familyanecdote."
"You'll excuse my asking again if it has anything to do with apicture, ma'am," observes Mr. Guppy, "because I do assure you thatthe more I think of that picture the better I know it, withoutknowing how I know it!"
The story has nothing to do with a picture; the housekeeper canguarantee that. Mr. Guppy is obliged to her for the information andis, moreover, generally obliged. He retires with his friend, guideddown another staircase by the young gardener, and presently is heardto drive away. It is now dusk. Mrs. Rouncewell can trust to thediscretion of her two young hearers and may tell THEM how the terracecame to have that ghostly name.
She seats herself in a large chair by the fast-darkening window andtells them: "In the wicked days, my dears, of King Charles theFirst--I mean, of course, in the wicked days of the rebels wholeagued themselves against that excellent king--Sir Morbury Dedlockwas the owner of Chesney Wold. Whether there was any account of aghost in the family before those days, I can't say. I should think itvery likely indeed."
Mrs. Rouncewell holds this opinion because she considers that afamily of such antiquity and importance has a right to a ghost. Sheregards a ghost as one of the privileges of the upper classes, agenteel distinction to which the common people have no claim.
"Sir Morbury Dedlock," says Mrs. Rouncewell, "was, I have no occasionto say, on the side of the blessed martyr. But it IS supposed thathis Lady, who had none of the family blood in her veins, favoured thebad cause. It is said that she had relations among King Charles'senemies, that she was in correspondence with them, and that she gavethem information. When any of the country gentlemen who followed hisMajesty's cause met here, it is said that my Lady was always nearerto the door of their council-room than they supposed. Do you hear asound like a footstep passing along the terrace, Watt?"
Rosa draws nearer to the housekeeper.
"I hear the rain-drip on the stones," replies the young man, "and Ihear a curious echo--I suppose an echo--which is very like a haltingstep."
The housekeeper gravely nods and continues: "Partly on account ofthis division between them, and partly on other accounts, Sir Morburyand his Lady led a troubled life. She was a lady of a haughty temper.They were not well suited to each other in age or character, and theyhad no children to moderate between them. After her favouritebrother, a young gentleman, was killed in the civil wars (by SirMorbury's near kinsman), her feeling was so violent that she hatedthe race into which she had married. When the Dedlocks were about toride out from Chesney Wold in the king's cause, she is supposed tohave more than once stolen down into the stables in the dead of nightand lamed their horses; and the story is that once at such an hour,her husband saw her gliding down the stairs and followed her into thestall where his own favourite horse stood. There he seized her by thewrist, and in a struggle or in a fall or through the horse beingfrightened and lashing out, she was lamed in the hip and from thathour began to pine away."
The housekeeper has dropped her voice to a little more than awhisper.
"She had been a lady of a handsome figure and a noble carriage. Shenever complained of the change; she never spoke to any one of beingcrippled or of being in pain, but day by day she tried to walk uponthe terrace, and with the help of the stone balustrade, went up anddown, up and down, up and down, in sun and shadow, with greaterdifficulty every day. At last, one afternoon her husband (to whom shehad never, on any persuasion, opened her lips since that night),standing at the great south window, saw her drop upon the pavement.He hastened down to raise her, but she repulsed him as he bent overher, and looking at him fixedly and coldly, said, 'I will die herewhere I have walked. And I will walk here, though I am in my grave. Iwill walk here until the pride of this house is humbled. And whencalamity or when disgrace is coming to it, let the Dedlocks listenfor my step!'"
Watt looks at Rosa. Rosa in the deepening gloom looks down upon theground, half frightened and half shy.
"There and then she died. And from those days," says Mrs. Rouncewell,"the name has come down--the Ghost's Walk. If the tread is an echo,it is an echo that is only heard after dark, and is often unheard fora long while together. But it comes back from time to time; and sosure as there is sickness or death in the family, it will be heardthen."
"And disgrace, grandmother--" says Watt.
"Disgrace never comes to Chesney Wold," returns the housekeeper.
Her grandson apologizes with "True. True."
"That is the story. Whatever the sound is, it is a worrying sound,"says Mrs. Rouncewell, getting up from her chair; "and what is to benoticed in it is that it MUST BE HEARD. My Lady, who is afraid ofnothing, admits that when it is there, it must be heard. You cannotshut it out. Watt, there is a tall French clock behind you (placedthere, 'a purpose) that has a loud beat when it is in motion and canplay music. You understand how those things are managed?"
"Pretty well, grandmother, I think."
"Set it a-going."
Watt sets it a-going--music and all.
"Now, come hither," says the housekeeper. "Hither, child, towards myLady's pillow. I am not sure that it is dark enough yet, but listen!Can you hear the sound upon the terrace, through the music, and thebeat, and everything?"
"I certainly can!"
"So my Lady says."



CHAPTER VIII
Covering a Multitude of Sins

It was interesting when I dressed before daylight to peep out ofwindow, where my candles were reflected in the black panes liketwo beacons, and finding all beyond still enshrouded in theindistinctness of last night, to watch how it turned out when the daycame on. As the prospect gradually revealed itself and disclosed thescene over which the wind had wandered in the dark, like my memoryover my life, I had a pleasure in discovering the unknown objectsthat had been around me in my sleep. At first they were faintlydiscernible in the mist, and above them the later stars stillglimmered. That pale interval over, the picture began to enlarge andfill up so fast that at every new peep I could have found enoughto look at for an hour. Imperceptibly my candles became the onlyincongruous part of the morning, the dark places in my room allmelted away, and the day shone bright upon a cheerful landscape,prominent in which the old Abbey Church, with its massive tower,threw a softer train of shadow on the view than seemed compatiblewith its rugged character. But so from rough outsides (I hope I havelearnt), serene and gentle influences often proceed.
Every part of the house was in such order, and every one was soattentive to me, that I had no trouble with my two bunches of keys,though what with trying to remember the contents of each littlestore-room drawer and cupboard; and what with making notes on a slateabout jams, and pickles, and preserves, and bottles, and glass, andchina, and a great many other things; and what with being generally amethodical, old-maidish sort of foolish little person, I was so busythat I could not believe it was breakfast-time when I heard the bellring. Away I ran, however, and made tea, as I had already beeninstalled into the responsibility of the tea-pot; and then, as theywere all rather late and nobody was down yet, I thought I would takea peep at the garden and get some knowledge of that too. I found itquite a delightful place--in front, the pretty avenue and drive bywhich we had approached (and where, by the by, we had cut up thegravel so terribly with our wheels that I asked the gardener to rollit); at the back, the flower-garden, with my darling at her window upthere, throwing it open to smile out at me, as if she would havekissed me from that distance. Beyond the flower-garden was akitchen-garden, and then a paddock, and then a snug little rick-yard,and then a dear little farm-yard. As to the house itself, with itsthree peaks in the roof; its various-shaped windows, some so large,some so small, and all so pretty; its trellis-work, against thesouth-front for roses and honey-suckle, and its homely, comfortable,welcoming look--it was, as Ada said when she came out to meet me withher arm through that of its master, worthy of her cousin John, a boldthing to say, though he only pinched her dear cheek for it.
Mr. Skimpole was as agreeable at breakfast as he had been overnight.There was honey on the table, and it led him into a discourse aboutbees. He had no objection to honey, he said (and I should think hehad not, for he seemed to like it), but he protested against theoverweening assumptions of bees. He didn't at all see why the busybee should be proposed as a model to him; he supposed the bee likedto make honey, or he wouldn't do it--nobody asked him. It was notnecessary for the bee to make such a merit of his tastes. If everyconfectioner went buzzing about the world banging against everythingthat came in his way and egotistically calling upon everybody to takenotice that he was going to his work and must not be interrupted, theworld would be quite an unsupportable place. Then, after all, it wasa ridiculous position to be smoked out of your fortune with brimstoneas soon as you had made it. You would have a very mean opinion of aManchester man if he spun cotton for no other purpose. He must say hethought a drone the embodiment of a pleasanter and wiser idea. Thedrone said unaffectedly, "You will excuse me; I really cannot attendto the shop! I find myself in a world in which there is so much tosee and so short a time to see it in that I must take the liberty oflooking about me and begging to be provided for by somebody whodoesn't want to look about him." This appeared to Mr. Skimpole to bethe drone philosophy, and he thought it a very good philosophy,always supposing the drone to be willing to be on good terms with thebee, which, so far as he knew, the easy fellow always was, if theconsequential creature would only let him, and not be so conceitedabout his honey!
He pursued this fancy with the lightest foot over a variety of groundand made us all merry, though again he seemed to have as serious ameaning in what he said as he was capable of having. I left themstill listening to him when I withdrew to attend to my new duties.They had occupied me for some time, and I was passing through thepassages on my return with my basket of keys on my arm when Mr.Jarndyce called me into a small room next his bed-chamber, which Ifound to be in part a little library of books and papers and in partquite a little museum of his boots and shoes and hat-boxes.
"Sit down, my dear," said Mr. Jarndyce. "This, you must know, is thegrowlery. When I am out of humour, I come and growl here."
"You must be here very seldom, sir," said I.
"Oh, you don't know me!" he returned. "When I am deceived ordisappointed in--the wind, and it's easterly, I take refuge here. Thegrowlery is the best-used room in the house. You are not aware ofhalf my humours yet. My dear, how you are trembling!"
I could not help it; I tried very hard, but being alone with thatbenevolent presence, and meeting his kind eyes, and feeling so happyand so honoured there, and my heart so full--I kissed his hand. Idon't know what I said, or even that I spoke. He was disconcerted andwalked to the window; I almost believed with an intention of jumpingout, until he turned and I was reassured by seeing in his eyes whathe had gone there to hide. He gently patted me on the head, and I satdown.
"There! There!" he said. "That's over. Pooh! Don't be foolish."
"It shall not happen again, sir," I returned, "but at first it isdifficult--"
"Nonsense!" he said. "It's easy, easy. Why not? I hear of a goodlittle orphan girl without a protector, and I take it into my head tobe that protector. She grows up, and more than justifies my goodopinion, and I remain her guardian and her friend. What is there inall this? So, so! Now, we have cleared off old scores, and I havebefore me thy pleasant, trusting, trusty face again."
I said to myself, "Esther, my dear, you surprise me! This really isnot what I expected of you!" And it had such a good effect that Ifolded my hands upon my basket and quite recovered myself. Mr.Jarndyce, expressing his approval in his face, began to talk to me asconfidentially as if I had been in the habit of conversing with himevery morning for I don't know how long. I almost felt as if I had.
"Of course, Esther," he said, "you don't understand this Chancerybusiness?"
And of course I shook my head.
"I don't know who does," he returned. "The lawyers have twisted itinto such a state of bedevilment that the original merits of the casehave long disappeared from the face of the earth. It's about a willand the trusts under a will--or it was once. It's about nothing butcosts now. We are always appearing, and disappearing, and swearing,and interrogating, and filing, and cross-filing, and arguing, andsealing, and motioning, and referring, and reporting, and revolvingabout the Lord Chancellor and all his satellites, and equitablywaltzing ourselves off to dusty death, about costs. That's the greatquestion. All the rest, by some extraordinary means, has meltedaway."
"But it was, sir," said I, to bring him back, for he began to rub hishead, "about a will?"
"Why, yes, it was about a will when it was about anything," hereturned. "A certain Jarndyce, in an evil hour, made a great fortune,and made a great will. In the question how the trusts under that willare to be administered, the fortune left by the will is squanderedaway; the legatees under the will are reduced to such a miserablecondition that they would be sufficiently punished if they hadcommitted an enormous crime in having money left them, and the willitself is made a dead letter. All through the deplorable cause,everything that everybody in it, except one man, knows already isreferred to that only one man who don't know, it to find out--allthrough the deplorable cause, everybody must have copies, over andover again, of everything that has accumulated about it in the way ofcartloads of papers (or must pay for them without having them, whichis the usual course, for nobody wants them) and must go down themiddle and up again through such an infernal country-dance of costsand fees and nonsense and corruption as was never dreamed of in thewildest visions of a witch's Sabbath. Equity sends questions to law,law sends questions back to equity; law finds it can't do this,equity finds it can't do that; neither can so much as say it can'tdo anything, without this solicitor instructing and this counselappearing for A, and that solicitor instructing and that counselappearing for B; and so on through the whole alphabet, like thehistory of the apple pie. And thus, through years and years, andlives and lives, everything goes on, constantly beginning over andover again, and nothing ever ends. And we can't get out of the suiton any terms, for we are made parties to it, and MUST BE parties toit, whether we like it or not. But it won't do to think of it! Whenmy great uncle, poor Tom Jarndyce, began to think of it, it was thebeginning of the end!"
"The Mr. Jarndyce, sir, whose story I have heard?"
He nodded gravely. "I was his heir, and this was his house, Esther.When I came here, it was bleak indeed. He had left the signs of hismisery upon it."
"How changed it must be now!" I said.
"It had been called, before his time, the Peaks. He gave it itspresent name and lived here shut up, day and night poring over thewicked heaps of papers in the suit and hoping against hope todisentangle it from its mystification and bring it to a close. In themeantime, the place became dilapidated, the wind whistled through thecracked walls, the rain fell through the broken roof, the weedschoked the passage to the rotting door. When I brought what remainedof him home here, the brains seemed to me to have been blown out ofthe house too, it was so shattered and ruined."
He walked a little to and fro after saying this to himself with ashudder, and then looked at me, and brightened, and came and sat downagain with his hands in his pockets.
"I told you this was the growlery, my dear. Where was I?"
I reminded him, at the hopeful change he had made in Bleak House.
"Bleak House; true. There is, in that city of London there, someproperty of ours which is much at this day what Bleak House was then;I say property of ours, meaning of the suit's, but I ought to call itthe property of costs, for costs is the only power on earth that willever get anything out of it now or will ever know it for anything butan eyesore and a heartsore. It is a street of perishing blind houses,with their eyes stoned out, without a pane of glass, without so muchas a window-frame, with the bare blank shutters tumbling from theirhinges and falling asunder, the iron rails peeling away in flakes ofrust, the chimneys sinking in, the stone steps to every door (andevery door might be death's door) turning stagnant green, the verycrutches on which the ruins are propped decaying. Although BleakHouse was not in Chancery, its master was, and it was stamped withthe same seal. These are the Great Seal's impressions, my dear, allover England--the children know them!"
"How changed it is!" I said again.
"Why, so it is," he answered much more cheerfully; "and it is wisdomin you to keep me to the bright side of the picture." (The idea of mywisdom!) "These are things I never talk about or even think about,excepting in the growlery here. If you consider it right to mentionthem to Rick and Ada," looking seriously at me, "you can. I leave itto your discretion, Esther."
"I hope, sir--" said I.
"I think you had better call me guardian, my dear."
I felt that I was choking again--I taxed myself with it, "Esther,now, you know you are!"--when he feigned to say this slightly, as ifit were a whim instead of a thoughtful tenderness. But I gave thehousekeeping keys the least shake in the world as a reminder tomyself, and folding my hands in a still more determined manner on thebasket, looked at him quietly.
"I hope, guardian," said I, "that you may not trust too much to mydiscretion. I hope you may not mistake me. I am afraid it will be adisappointment to you to know that I am not clever, but it really isthe truth, and you would soon find it out if I had not the honesty toconfess it."
He did not seem at all disappointed; quite the contrary. He told me,with a smile all over his face, that he knew me very well indeed andthat I was quite clever enough for him.
"I hope I may turn out so," said I, "but I am much afraid of it,guardian."
"You are clever enough to be the good little woman of our lives here,my dear," he returned playfully; "the little old woman of the child's(I don't mean Skimpole's) rhyme:

   "'Little old woman, and whither so high?'    'To sweep the cobwebs out of the sky.'

"You will sweep them so neatly out of OUR sky in the course of yourhousekeeping, Esther, that one of these days we shall have to abandonthe growlery and nail up the door."
This was the beginning of my being called Old Woman, and Little OldWoman, and Cobweb, and Mrs. Shipton, and Mother Hubbard, and DameDurden, and so many names of that sort that my own name soon becamequite lost among them.
"However," said Mr. Jarndyce, "to return to our gossip. Here's Rick,a fine young fellow full of promise. What's to be done with him?"
Oh, my goodness, the idea of asking my advice on such a point!
"Here he is, Esther," said Mr. Jarndyce, comfortably putting hishands into his pockets and stretching out his legs. "He must have aprofession; he must make some choice for himself. There will be aworld more wiglomeration about it, I suppose, but it must be done."
"More what, guardian?" said I.
"More wiglomeration," said he. "It's the only name I know for thething. He is a ward in Chancery, my dear. Kenge and Carboy will havesomething to say about it; Master Somebody--a sort of ridiculoussexton, digging graves for the merits of causes in a back room at theend of Quality Court, Chancery Lane--will have something to say aboutit; counsel will have something to say about it; the Chancellor willhave something to say about it; the satellites will have something tosay about it; they will all have to be handsomely feed, all round,about it; the whole thing will be vastly ceremonious, wordy,unsatisfactory, and expensive, and I call it, in general,wiglomeration. How mankind ever came to be afflicted withwiglomeration, or for whose sins these young people ever fell into apit of it, I don't know; so it is."
He began to rub his head again and to hint that he felt the wind. Butit was a delightful instance of his kindness towards me that whetherhe rubbed his head, or walked about, or did both, his face was sureto recover its benignant expression as it looked at mine; and he wassure to turn comfortable again and put his hands in his pockets andstretch out his legs.
"Perhaps it would be best, first of all," said I, "to ask Mr. Richardwhat he inclines to himself."
"Exactly so," he returned. "That's what I mean! You know, justaccustom yourself to talk it over, with your tact and in your quietway, with him and Ada, and see what you all make of it. We are sureto come at the heart of the matter by your means, little woman."
I really was frightened at the thought of the importance I wasattaining and the number of things that were being confided to me. Ihad not meant this at all; I had meant that he should speak toRichard. But of course I said nothing in reply except that I would domy best, though I feared (I really felt it necessary to repeat this)that he thought me much more sagacious than I was. At which myguardian only laughed the pleasantest laugh I ever heard.
"Come!" he said, rising and pushing back his chair. "I think we mayhave done with the growlery for one day! Only a concluding word.Esther, my dear, do you wish to ask me anything?"
He looked so attentively at me that I looked attentively at him andfelt sure I understood him.
"About myself, sir?" said I.
"Yes."
"Guardian," said I, venturing to put my hand, which was suddenlycolder than I could have wished, in his, "nothing! I am quite surethat if there were anything I ought to know or had any need to know,I should not have to ask you to tell it to me. If my whole relianceand confidence were not placed in you, I must have a hard heartindeed. I have nothing to ask you, nothing in the world."
He drew my hand through his arm and we went away to look for Ada.From that hour I felt quite easy with him, quite unreserved, quitecontent to know no more, quite happy.
We lived, at first, rather a busy life at Bleak House, for we had tobecome acquainted with many residents in and out of the neighbourhoodwho knew Mr. Jarndyce. It seemed to Ada and me that everybody knewhim who wanted to do anything with anybody else's money. It amazed uswhen we began to sort his letters and to answer some of them for himin the growlery of a morning to find how the great object of thelives of nearly all his correspondents appeared to be to formthemselves into committees for getting in and laying out money. Theladies were as desperate as the gentlemen; indeed, I think they wereeven more so. They threw themselves into committees in the mostimpassioned manner and collected subscriptions with a vehemence quiteextraordinary. It appeared to us that some of them must pass theirwhole lives in dealing out subscription-cards to the wholepost-office directory--shilling cards, half-crown cards,half-sovereign cards, penny cards. They wanted everything. Theywanted wearing apparel, they wanted linen rags, they wanted money,they wanted coals, they wanted soup, they wanted interest, theywanted autographs, they wanted flannel, they wanted whatever Mr.Jarndyce had--or had not. Their objects were as various as theirdemands. They were going to raise new buildings, they were going topay off debts on old buildings, they were going to establish in apicturesque building (engraving of proposed west elevation attached)the Sisterhood of Mediaeval Marys, they were going to give atestimonial to Mrs. Jellyby, they were going to have theirsecretary's portrait painted and presented to his mother-in-law,whose deep devotion to him was well known, they were going to get upeverything, I really believe, from five hundred thousand tracts to anannuity and from a marble monument to a silver tea-pot. They took amultitude of titles. They were the Women of England, the Daughters ofBritain, the Sisters of all the cardinal virtues separately, theFemales of America, the Ladies of a hundred denominations. Theyappeared to be always excited about canvassing and electing. Theyseemed to our poor wits, and according to their own accounts, to beconstantly polling people by tens of thousands, yet never bringingtheir candidates in for anything. It made our heads ache to think, onthe whole, what feverish lives they must lead.
Among the ladies who were most distinguished for this rapaciousbenevolence (if I may use the expression) was a Mrs. Pardiggle, whoseemed, as I judged from the number of her letters to Mr. Jarndyce,to be almost as powerful a correspondent as Mrs. Jellyby herself. Weobserved that the wind always changed when Mrs. Pardiggle became thesubject of conversation and that it invariably interrupted Mr.Jarndyce and prevented his going any farther, when he had remarkedthat there were two classes of charitable people; one, the people whodid a little and made a great deal of noise; the other, the peoplewho did a great deal and made no noise at all. We were thereforecurious to see Mrs. Pardiggle, suspecting her to be a type of theformer class, and were glad when she called one day with her fiveyoung sons.
She was a formidable style of lady with spectacles, a prominent nose,and a loud voice, who had the effect of wanting a great deal of room.And she really did, for she knocked down little chairs with herskirts that were quite a great way off. As only Ada and I were athome, we received her timidly, for she seemed to come in like coldweather and to make the little Pardiggles blue as they followed.
"These, young ladies," said Mrs. Pardiggle with great volubilityafter the first salutations, "are my five boys. You may have seentheir names in a printed subscription list (perhaps more than one) inthe possession of our esteemed friend Mr. Jarndyce. Egbert, my eldest(twelve), is the boy who sent out his pocket-money, to the amount offive and threepence, to the Tockahoopo Indians. Oswald, my second(ten and a half), is the child who contributed two and nine-pence tothe Great National Smithers Testimonial. Francis, my third (nine),one and sixpence halfpenny; Felix, my fourth (seven), eightpence tothe Superannuated Widows; Alfred, my youngest (five), has voluntarilyenrolled himself in the Infant Bonds of Joy, and is pledged never,through life, to use tobacco in any form."
We had never seen such dissatisfied children. It was not merely thatthey were weazened and shrivelled--though they were certainly thattoo--but they looked absolutely ferocious with discontent. At themention of the Tockahoopo Indians, I could really have supposedEgbert to be one of the most baleful members of that tribe, he gaveme such a savage frown. The face of each child, as the amount of hiscontribution was mentioned, darkened in a peculiarly vindictivemanner, but his was by far the worst. I must except, however, thelittle recruit into the Infant Bonds of Joy, who was stolidly andevenly miserable.
"You have been visiting, I understand," said Mrs. Pardiggle, "at Mrs.Jellyby's?"
We said yes, we had passed one night there.
"Mrs. Jellyby," pursued the lady, always speaking in the samedemonstrative, loud, hard tone, so that her voice impressed my fancyas if it had a sort of spectacles on too--and I may take theopportunity of remarking that her spectacles were made the lessengaging by her eyes being what Ada called "choking eyes," meaningvery prominent--"Mrs. Jellyby is a benefactor to society and deservesa helping hand. My boys have contributed to the Africanproject--Egbert, one and six, being the entire allowance of nineweeks; Oswald, one and a penny halfpenny, being the same; the rest,according to their little means. Nevertheless, I do not go with Mrs.Jellyby in all things. I do not go with Mrs. Jellyby in her treatmentof her young family. It has been noticed. It has been observed thather young family are excluded from participation in the objects towhich she is devoted. She may be right, she may be wrong; but, rightor wrong, this is not my course with MY young family. I take themeverywhere."
I was afterwards convinced (and so was Ada) that from theill-conditioned eldest child, these words extorted a sharp yell. Heturned it off into a yawn, but it began as a yell.
"They attend matins with me (very prettily done) at half-past sixo'clock in the morning all the year round, including of course thedepth of winter," said Mrs. Pardiggle rapidly, "and they are with meduring the revolving duties of the day. I am a School lady, I am aVisiting lady, I am a Reading lady, I am a Distributing lady; I am onthe local Linen Box Committee and many general committees; and mycanvassing alone is very extensive--perhaps no one's more so. Butthey are my companions everywhere; and by these means they acquirethat knowledge of the poor, and that capacity of doing charitablebusiness in general--in short, that taste for the sort ofthing--which will render them in after life a service to theirneighbours and a satisfaction to themselves. My young family are notfrivolous; they expend the entire amount of their allowance insubscriptions, under my direction; and they have attended as manypublic meetings and listened to as many lectures, orations, anddiscussions as generally fall to the lot of few grown people. Alfred(five), who, as I mentioned, has of his own election joined theInfant Bonds of Joy, was one of the very few children who manifestedconsciousness on that occasion after a fervid address of two hoursfrom the chairman of the evening."
Alfred glowered at us as if he never could, or would, forgive theinjury of that night.
"You may have observed, Miss Summerson," said Mrs. Pardiggle, "insome of the lists to which I have referred, in the possession of ouresteemed friend Mr. Jarndyce, that the names of my young family areconcluded with the name of O. A. Pardiggle, F.R.S., one pound. Thatis their father. We usually observe the same routine. I put down mymite first; then my young family enrol their contributions, accordingto their ages and their little means; and then Mr. Pardiggle bringsup the rear. Mr. Pardiggle is happy to throw in his limited donation,under my direction; and thus things are made not only pleasant toourselves, but, we trust, improving to others."
Suppose Mr. Pardiggle were to dine with Mr. Jellyby, and suppose Mr.Jellyby were to relieve his mind after dinner to Mr. Pardiggle, wouldMr. Pardiggle, in return, make any confidential communication to Mr.Jellyby? I was quite confused to find myself thinking this, but itcame into my head.
"You are very pleasantly situated here!" said Mrs. Pardiggle.
We were glad to change the subject, and going to the window, pointedout the beauties of the prospect, on which the spectacles appeared tome to rest with curious indifference.
"You know Mr. Gusher?" said our visitor.
We were obliged to say that we had not the pleasure of Mr. Gusher'sacquaintance.
"The loss is yours, I assure you," said Mrs. Pardiggle with hercommanding deportment. "He is a very fervid, impassionedspeaker--full of fire! Stationed in a waggon on this lawn, now,which, from the shape of the land, is naturally adapted to a publicmeeting, he would improve almost any occasion you could mention forhours and hours! By this time, young ladies," said Mrs. Pardiggle,moving back to her chair and overturning, as if by invisible agency,a little round table at a considerable distance with my work-basketon it, "by this time you have found me out, I dare say?"
This was really such a confusing question that Ada looked at me inperfect dismay. As to the guilty nature of my own consciousness afterwhat I had been thinking, it must have been expressed in the colourof my cheeks.
"Found out, I mean," said Mrs. Pardiggle, "the prominent point in mycharacter. I am aware that it is so prominent as to be discoverableimmediately. I lay myself open to detection, I know. Well! I freelyadmit, I am a woman of business. I love hard work; I enjoy hard work.The excitement does me good. I am so accustomed and inured to hardwork that I don't know what fatigue is."
We murmured that it was very astonishing and very gratifying, orsomething to that effect. I don't think we knew what it was either,but this is what our politeness expressed.
"I do not understand what it is to be tired; you cannot tire me ifyou try!" said Mrs. Pardiggle. "The quantity of exertion (which is noexertion to me), the amount of business (which I regard as nothing),that I go through sometimes astonishes myself. I have seen my youngfamily, and Mr. Pardiggle, quite worn out with witnessing it, when Imay truly say I have been as fresh as a lark!"
If that dark-visaged eldest boy could look more malicious than he hadalready looked, this was the time when he did it. I observed that hedoubled his right fist and delivered a secret blow into the crown ofhis cap, which was under his left arm.
"This gives me a great advantage when I am making my rounds," saidMrs. Pardiggle. "If I find a person unwilling to hear what I have tosay, I tell that person directly, 'I am incapable of fatigue, my goodfriend, I am never tired, and I mean to go on until I have done.' Itanswers admirably! Miss Summerson, I hope I shall have yourassistance in my visiting rounds immediately, and Miss Clare's verysoon."
At first I tried to excuse myself for the present on the generalground of having occupations to attend to which I must not neglect.But as this was an ineffectual protest, I then said, moreparticularly, that I was not sure of my qualifications. That I wasinexperienced in the art of adapting my mind to minds verydifferently situated, and addressing them from suitable points ofview. That I had not that delicate knowledge of the heart which mustbe essential to such a work. That I had much to learn, myself, beforeI could teach others, and that I could not confide in my goodintentions alone. For these reasons I thought it best to be as usefulas I could, and to render what kind services I could to thoseimmediately about me, and to try to let that circle of duty graduallyand naturally expand itself. All this I said with anything butconfidence, because Mrs. Pardiggle was much older than I, and hadgreat experience, and was so very military in her manners.
"You are wrong, Miss Summerson," said she, "but perhaps you are notequal to hard work or the excitement of it, and that makes a vastdifference. If you would like to see how I go through my work, I amnow about--with my young family--to visit a brickmaker in theneighbourhood (a very bad character) and shall be glad to take youwith me. Miss Clare also, if she will do me the favour."
Ada and I interchanged looks, and as we were going out in any case,accepted the offer. When we hastily returned from putting on ourbonnets, we found the young family languishing in a corner and Mrs.Pardiggle sweeping about the room, knocking down nearly all the lightobjects it contained. Mrs. Pardiggle took possession of Ada, and Ifollowed with the family.
Ada told me afterwards that Mrs. Pardiggle talked in the same loudtone (that, indeed, I overheard) all the way to the brickmaker'sabout an exciting contest which she had for two or three years wagedagainst another lady relative to the bringing in of their rivalcandidates for a pension somewhere. There had been a quantity ofprinting, and promising, and proxying, and polling, and it appearedto have imparted great liveliness to all concerned, except thepensioners--who were not elected yet.
I am very fond of being confided in by children and am happy in beingusually favoured in that respect, but on this occasion it gave megreat uneasiness. As soon as we were out of doors, Egbert, with themanner of a little footpad, demanded a shilling of me on the groundthat his pocket-money was "boned" from him. On my pointing out thegreat impropriety of the word, especially in connexion with hisparent (for he added sulkily "By her!"), he pinched me and said, "Oh,then! Now! Who are you! YOU wouldn't like it, I think? What does shemake a sham for, and pretend to give me money, and take it awayagain? Why do you call it my allowance, and never let me spend it?"These exasperating questions so inflamed his mind and the minds ofOswald and Francis that they all pinched me at once, and in adreadfully expert way--screwing up such little pieces of my arms thatI could hardly forbear crying out. Felix, at the same time, stampedupon my toes. And the Bond of Joy, who on account of always havingthe whole of his little income anticipated stood in fact pledged toabstain from cakes as well as tobacco, so swelled with grief and ragewhen we passed a pastry-cook's shop that he terrified me by becomingpurple. I never underwent so much, both in body and mind, in thecourse of a walk with young people as from these unnaturallyconstrained children when they paid me the compliment of beingnatural.
I was glad when we came to the brickmaker's house, though it was oneof a cluster of wretched hovels in a brick-field, with pigsties closeto the broken windows and miserable little gardens before the doorsgrowing nothing but stagnant pools. Here and there an old tub was putto catch the droppings of rain-water from a roof, or they were bankedup with mud into a little pond like a large dirt-pie. At the doorsand windows some men and women lounged or prowled about, and tooklittle notice of us except to laugh to one another or to saysomething as we passed about gentlefolks minding their own businessand not troubling their heads and muddying their shoes with coming tolook after other people's.
Mrs. Pardiggle, leading the way with a great show of moraldetermination and talking with much volubility about the untidyhabits of the people (though I doubted if the best of us could havebeen tidy in such a place), conducted us into a cottage at thefarthest corner, the ground-floor room of which we nearly filled.Besides ourselves, there were in this damp, offensive room a womanwith a black eye, nursing a poor little gasping baby by the fire; aman, all stained with clay and mud and looking very dissipated, lyingat full length on the ground, smoking a pipe; a powerful young manfastening a collar on a dog; and a bold girl doing some kind ofwashing in very dirty water. They all looked up at us as we came in,and the woman seemed to turn her face towards the fire as if to hideher bruised eye; nobody gave us any welcome.
"Well, my friends," said Mrs. Pardiggle, but her voice had not afriendly sound, I thought; it was much too business-like andsystematic. "How do you do, all of you? I am here again. I told you,you couldn't tire me, you know. I am fond of hard work, and am trueto my word."
"There an't," growled the man on the floor, whose head rested on hishand as he stared at us, "any more on you to come in, is there?"
"No, my friend," said Mrs. Pardiggle, seating herself on one stooland knocking down another. "We are all here."
"Because I thought there warn't enough of you, perhaps?" said theman, with his pipe between his lips as he looked round upon us.
The young man and the girl both laughed. Two friends of the youngman, whom we had attracted to the doorway and who stood there withtheir hands in their pockets, echoed the laugh noisily.
"You can't tire me, good people," said Mrs. Pardiggle to theselatter. "I enjoy hard work, and the harder you make mine, the betterI like it."
"Then make it easy for her!" growled the man upon the floor. "I wantsit done, and over. I wants a end of these liberties took with myplace. I wants an end of being drawed like a badger. Now you'rea-going to poll-pry and question according to custom--I know whatyou're a-going to be up to. Well! You haven't got no occasion to beup to it. I'll save you the trouble. Is my daughter a-washin? Yes,she IS a-washin. Look at the water. Smell it! That's wot we drinks.How do you like it, and what do you think of gin instead! An't myplace dirty? Yes, it is dirty--it's nat'rally dirty, and it'snat'rally onwholesome; and we've had five dirty and onwholesomechildren, as is all dead infants, and so much the better for them,and for us besides. Have I read the little book wot you left? No, Ian't read the little book wot you left. There an't nobody here asknows how to read it; and if there wos, it wouldn't be suitable tome. It's a book fit for a babby, and I'm not a babby. If you was toleave me a doll, I shouldn't nuss it. How have I been conducting ofmyself? Why, I've been drunk for three days; and I'da been drunk fourif I'da had the money. Don't I never mean for to go to church? No, Idon't never mean for to go to church. I shouldn't be expected there,if I did; the beadle's too gen-teel for me. And how did my wife getthat black eye? Why, I give it her; and if she says I didn't, she's alie!"
He had pulled his pipe out of his mouth to say all this, and he nowturned over on his other side and smoked again. Mrs. Pardiggle, whohad been regarding him through her spectacles with a forciblecomposure, calculated, I could not help thinking, to increase hisantagonism, pulled out a good book as if it were a constable's staffand took the whole family into custody. I mean into religiouscustody, of course; but she really did it as if she were aninexorable moral policeman carrying them all off to a station-house.
Ada and I were very uncomfortable. We both felt intrusive and out ofplace, and we both thought that Mrs. Pardiggle would have got oninfinitely better if she had not had such a mechanical way of takingpossession of people. The children sulked and stared; the family tookno notice of us whatever, except when the young man made the dogbark, which he usually did when Mrs. Pardiggle was most emphatic. Weboth felt painfully sensible that between us and these people therewas an iron barrier which could not be removed by our new friend. Bywhom or how it could be removed, we did not know, but we knew that.Even what she read and said seemed to us to be ill-chosen for suchauditors, if it had been imparted ever so modestly and with ever somuch tact. As to the little book to which the man on the floor hadreferred, we acquired a knowledge of it afterwards, and Mr. Jarndycesaid he doubted if Robinson Crusoe could have read it, though he hadhad no other on his desolate island.
We were much relieved, under these circumstances, when Mrs. Pardiggleleft off.
The man on the floor, then turning his head round again, saidmorosely, "Well! You've done, have you?"
"For to-day, I have, my friend. But I am never fatigued. I shall cometo you again in your regular order," returned Mrs. Pardiggle withdemonstrative cheerfulness.
"So long as you goes now," said he, folding his arms and shutting hiseyes with an oath, "you may do wot you like!"
Mrs. Pardiggle accordingly rose and made a little vortex in theconfined room from which the pipe itself very narrowly escaped.Taking one of her young family in each hand, and telling the othersto follow closely, and expressing her hope that the brickmaker andall his house would be improved when she saw them next, she thenproceeded to another cottage. I hope it is not unkind in me to saythat she certainly did make, in this as in everything else, a showthat was not conciliatory of doing charity by wholesale and ofdealing in it to a large extent.
She supposed that we were following her, but as soon as the space wasleft clear, we approached the woman sitting by the fire to ask if thebaby were ill.
She only looked at it as it lay on her lap. We had observed beforethat when she looked at it she covered her discoloured eye with herhand, as though she wished to separate any association with noise andviolence and ill treatment from the poor little child.
Ada, whose gentle heart was moved by its appearance, bent down totouch its little face. As she did so, I saw what happened and drewher back. The child died.
"Oh, Esther!" cried Ada, sinking on her knees beside it. "Look here!Oh, Esther, my love, the little thing! The suffering, quiet, prettylittle thing! I am so sorry for it. I am so sorry for the mother. Inever saw a sight so pitiful as this before! Oh, baby, baby!"
Such compassion, such gentleness, as that with which she bent downweeping and put her hand upon the mother's might have softened anymother's heart that ever beat. The woman at first gazed at her inastonishment and then burst into tears.
Presently I took the light burden from her lap, did what I could tomake the baby's rest the prettier and gentler, laid it on a shelf,and covered it with my own handkerchief. We tried to comfort themother, and we whispered to her what Our Saviour said of children.She answered nothing, but sat weeping--weeping very much.
When I turned, I found that the young man had taken out the dog andwas standing at the door looking in upon us with dry eyes, but quiet.The girl was quiet too and sat in a corner looking on the ground. Theman had risen. He still smoked his pipe with an air of defiance, buthe was silent.
An ugly woman, very poorly clothed, hurried in while I was glancingat them, and coming straight up to the mother, said, "Jenny! Jenny!"The mother rose on being so addressed and fell upon the woman's neck.
She also had upon her face and arms the marks of ill usage. She hadno kind of grace about her, but the grace of sympathy; but when shecondoled with the woman, and her own tears fell, she wanted nobeauty. I say condoled, but her only words were "Jenny! Jenny!" Allthe rest was in the tone in which she said them.
I thought it very touching to see these two women, coarse and shabbyand beaten, so united; to see what they could be to one another; tosee how they felt for one another, how the heart of each to each wassoftened by the hard trials of their lives. I think the best side ofsuch people is almost hidden from us. What the poor are to the pooris little known, excepting to themselves and God.
We felt it better to withdraw and leave them uninterrupted. We stoleout quietly and without notice from any one except the man. He wasleaning against the wall near the door, and finding that there wasscarcely room for us to pass, went out before us. He seemed to wantto hide that he did this on our account, but we perceived that hedid, and thanked him. He made no answer.
Ada was so full of grief all the way home, and Richard, whom we foundat home, was so distressed to see her in tears (though he said to me,when she was not present, how beautiful it was too!), that wearranged to return at night with some little comforts and repeat ourvisit at the brick-maker's house. We said as little as we could toMr. Jarndyce, but the wind changed directly.
Richard accompanied us at night to the scene of our morningexpedition. On our way there, we had to pass a noisy drinking-house,where a number of men were flocking about the door. Among them, andprominent in some dispute, was the father of the little child. At ashort distance, we passed the young man and the dog, in congenialcompany. The sister was standing laughing and talking with some otheryoung women at the corner of the row of cottages, but she seemedashamed and turned away as we went by.
We left our escort within sight of the brickmaker's dwelling andproceeded by ourselves. When we came to the door, we found the womanwho had brought such consolation with her standing there lookinganxiously out.
"It's you, young ladies, is it?" she said in a whisper. "I'ma-watching for my master. My heart's in my mouth. If he was to catchme away from home, he'd pretty near murder me."
"Do you mean your husband?" said I.
"Yes, miss, my master. Jenny's asleep, quite worn out. She's scarcelyhad the child off her lap, poor thing, these seven days and nights,except when I've been able to take it for a minute or two."
As she gave way for us, she went softly in and put what we hadbrought near the miserable bed on which the mother slept. No efforthad been made to clean the room--it seemed in its nature almosthopeless of being clean; but the small waxen form from which so muchsolemnity diffused itself had been composed afresh, and washed, andneatly dressed in some fragments of white linen; and on myhandkerchief, which still covered the poor baby, a little bunch ofsweet herbs had been laid by the same rough, scarred hands, solightly, so tenderly!
"May heaven reward you!" we said to her. "You are a good woman."
"Me, young ladies?" she returned with surprise. "Hush! Jenny, Jenny!"
The mother had moaned in her sleep and moved. The sound of thefamiliar voice seemed to calm her again. She was quiet once more.
How little I thought, when I raised my handkerchief to look upon thetiny sleeper underneath and seemed to see a halo shine around thechild through Ada's drooping hair as her pity bent her head--howlittle I thought in whose unquiet bosom that handkerchief would cometo lie after covering the motionless and peaceful breast! I onlythought that perhaps the Angel of the child might not be allunconscious of the woman who replaced it with so compassionate ahand; not all unconscious of her presently, when we had taken leave,and left her at the door, by turns looking, and listening in terrorfor herself, and saying in her old soothing manner, "Jenny, Jenny!"



CHAPTER IX
Signs and Tokens

I don't know how it is I seem to be always writing about myself. Imean all the time to write about other people, and I try to thinkabout myself as little as possible, and I am sure, when I find myselfcoming into the story again, I am really vexed and say, "Dear, dear,you tiresome little creature, I wish you wouldn't!" but it is all ofno use. I hope any one who may read what I write will understand thatif these pages contain a great deal about me, I can only suppose itmust be because I have really something to do with them and can't bekept out.
My darling and I read together, and worked, and practised, and foundso much employment for our time that the winter days flew by us likebright-winged birds. Generally in the afternoons, and always in theevenings, Richard gave us his company. Although he was one of themost restless creatures in the world, he certainly was very fond ofour society.
He was very, very, very fond of Ada. I mean it, and I had better sayit at once. I had never seen any young people falling in love before,but I found them out quite soon. I could not say so, of course, orshow that I knew anything about it. On the contrary, I was so demureand used to seem so unconscious that sometimes I considered withinmyself while I was sitting at work whether I was not growing quitedeceitful.
But there was no help for it. All I had to do was to be quiet, and Iwas as quiet as a mouse. They were as quiet as mice too, so far asany words were concerned, but the innocent manner in which theyrelied more and more upon me as they took more and more to oneanother was so charming that I had great difficulty in not showinghow it interested me.
"Our dear little old woman is such a capital old woman," Richardwould say, coming up to meet me in the garden early, with hispleasant laugh and perhaps the least tinge of a blush, "that I can'tget on without her. Before I begin my harum-scarum day--grinding awayat those books and instruments and then galloping up hill and downdale, all the country round, like a highwayman--it does me so muchgood to come and have a steady walk with our comfortable friend, thathere I am again!"
"You know, Dame Durden, dear," Ada would say at night, with her headupon my shoulder and the firelight shining in her thoughtful eyes, "Idon't want to talk when we come upstairs here. Only to sit a littlewhile thinking, with your dear face for company, and to hear the windand remember the poor sailors at sea--"
Ah! Perhaps Richard was going to be a sailor. We had talked it oververy often now, and there was some talk of gratifying the inclinationof his childhood for the sea. Mr. Jarndyce had written to a relationof the family, a great Sir Leicester Dedlock, for his interest inRichard's favour, generally; and Sir Leicester had replied in agracious manner that he would be happy to advance the prospects ofthe young gentleman if it should ever prove to be within his power,which was not at all probable, and that my Lady sent her complimentsto the young gentleman (to whom she perfectly remembered that she wasallied by remote consanguinity) and trusted that he would ever do hisduty in any honourable profession to which he might devote himself.
"So I apprehend it's pretty clear," said Richard to me, "that I shallhave to work my own way. Never mind! Plenty of people have had to dothat before now, and have done it. I only wish I had the command of aclipping privateer to begin with and could carry off the Chancellorand keep him on short allowance until he gave judgment in our cause.He'd find himself growing thin, if he didn't look sharp!"
With a buoyancy and hopefulness and a gaiety that hardly everflagged, Richard had a carelessness in his character that quiteperplexed me, principally because he mistook it, in such a very oddway, for prudence. It entered into all his calculations about moneyin a singular manner which I don't think I can better explain than byreverting for a moment to our loan to Mr. Skimpole.
Mr. Jarndyce had ascertained the amount, either from Mr. Skimpolehimself or from Coavinses, and had placed the money in my hands withinstructions to me to retain my own part of it and hand the rest toRichard. The number of little acts of thoughtless expenditure whichRichard justified by the recovery of his ten pounds, and the numberof times he talked to me as if he had saved or realized that amount,would form a sum in simple addition.
"My prudent Mother Hubbard, why not?" he said to me when he wanted,without the least consideration, to bestow five pounds on thebrickmaker. "I made ten pounds, clear, out of Coavinses' business."
"How was that?" said I.
"Why, I got rid of ten pounds which I was quite content to get rid ofand never expected to see any more. You don't deny that?"
"No," said I.
"Very well! Then I came into possession of ten pounds--"
"The same ten pounds," I hinted.
"That has nothing to do with it!" returned Richard. "I have got tenpounds more than I expected to have, and consequently I can afford tospend it without being particular."
In exactly the same way, when he was persuaded out of the sacrificeof these five pounds by being convinced that it would do no good, hecarried that sum to his credit and drew upon it.
"Let me see!" he would say. "I saved five pounds out of thebrickmaker's affair, so if I have a good rattle to London and back ina post-chaise and put that down at four pounds, I shall have savedone. And it's a very good thing to save one, let me tell you: a pennysaved is a penny got!"
I believe Richard's was as frank and generous a nature as therepossibly can be. He was ardent and brave, and in the midst of all hiswild restlessness, was so gentle that I knew him like a brother in afew weeks. His gentleness was natural to him and would have shownitself abundantly even without Ada's influence; but with it, hebecame one of the most winning of companions, always so ready to beinterested and always so happy, sanguine, and light-hearted. I amsure that I, sitting with them, and walking with them, and talkingwith them, and noticing from day to day how they went on, fallingdeeper and deeper in love, and saying nothing about it, and eachshyly thinking that this love was the greatest of secrets, perhapsnot yet suspected even by the other--I am sure that I was scarcelyless enchanted than they were and scarcely less pleased with thepretty dream.
We were going on in this way, when one morning at breakfast Mr.Jarndyce received a letter, and looking at the superscription, said,"From Boythorn? Aye, aye!" and opened and read it with evidentpleasure, announcing to us in a parenthesis when he was abouthalf-way through, that Boythorn was "coming down" on a visit. Now whowas Boythorn, we all thought. And I dare say we all thought too--I amsure I did, for one--would Boythorn at all interfere with what wasgoing forward?
"I went to school with this fellow, Lawrence Boythorn," said Mr.Jarndyce, tapping the letter as he laid it on the table, "more thanfive and forty years ago. He was then the most impetuous boy in theworld, and he is now the most impetuous man. He was then the loudestboy in the world, and he is now the loudest man. He was then theheartiest and sturdiest boy in the world, and he is now the heartiestand sturdiest man. He is a tremendous fellow."
"In stature, sir?" asked Richard.
"Pretty well, Rick, in that respect," said Mr. Jarndyce; "being someten years older than I and a couple of inches taller, with his headthrown back like an old soldier, his stalwart chest squared, hishands like a clean blacksmith's, and his lungs! There's no simile forhis lungs. Talking, laughing, or snoring, they make the beams of thehouse shake."
As Mr. Jarndyce sat enjoying the image of his friend Boythorn, weobserved the favourable omen that there was not the least indicationof any change in the wind.
"But it's the inside of the man, the warm heart of the man, thepassion of the man, the fresh blood of the man, Rick--and Ada, andlittle Cobweb too, for you are all interested in a visitor--that Ispeak of," he pursued. "His language is as sounding as his voice. Heis always in extremes, perpetually in the superlative degree. In hiscondemnation he is all ferocity. You might suppose him to be an ogrefrom what he says, and I believe he has the reputation of one withsome people. There! I tell you no more of him beforehand. You mustnot be surprised to see him take me under his protection, for he hasnever forgotten that I was a low boy at school and that ourfriendship began in his knocking two of my head tyrant's teeth out(he says six) before breakfast. Boythorn and his man," to me, "willbe here this afternoon, my dear."
I took care that the necessary preparations were made for Mr.Boythorn's reception, and we looked forward to his arrival with somecuriosity. The afternoon wore away, however, and he did not appear.The dinner-hour arrived, and still he did not appear. The dinner wasput back an hour, and we were sitting round the fire with no lightbut the blaze when the hall-door suddenly burst open and the hallresounded with these words, uttered with the greatest vehemence andin a stentorian tone: "We have been misdirected, Jarndyce, by a mostabandoned ruffian, who told us to take the turning to the rightinstead of to the left. He is the most intolerable scoundrel on theface of the earth. His father must have been a most consummatevillain, ever to have such a son. I would have had that fellow shotwithout the least remorse!"
"Did he do it on purpose?" Mr. Jarndyce inquired.
"I have not the slightest doubt that the scoundrel has passed hiswhole existence in misdirecting travellers!" returned the other. "Bymy soul, I thought him the worst-looking dog I had ever beheld whenhe was telling me to take the turning to the right. And yet I stoodbefore that fellow face to face and didn't knock his brains out!"
"Teeth, you mean?" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, really making the wholehouse vibrate. "What, you have not forgotten it yet! Ha, ha, ha! Andthat was another most consummate vagabond! By my soul, thecountenance of that fellow when he was a boy was the blackest imageof perfidy, cowardice, and cruelty ever set up as a scarecrow in afield of scoundrels. If I were to meet that most unparalleled despotin the streets to-morrow, I would fell him like a rotten tree!"
"I have no doubt of it," said Mr. Jarndyce. "Now, will you comeupstairs?"
"By my soul, Jarndyce," returned his guest, who seemed to refer tohis watch, "if you had been married, I would have turned back at thegarden-gate and gone away to the remotest summits of the HimalayaMountains sooner than I would have presented myself at thisunseasonable hour."
"Not quite so far, I hope?" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"By my life and honour, yes!" cried the visitor. "I wouldn't beguilty of the audacious insolence of keeping a lady of the housewaiting all this time for any earthly consideration. I wouldinfinitely rather destroy myself--infinitely rather!"
Talking thus, they went upstairs, and presently we heard him in hisbedroom thundering "Ha, ha, ha!" and again "Ha, ha, ha!" until theflattest echo in the neighbourhood seemed to catch the contagion andto laugh as enjoyingly as he did or as we did when we heard himlaugh.
We all conceived a prepossession in his favour, for there was asterling quality in this laugh, and in his vigorous, healthy voice,and in the roundness and fullness with which he uttered every word hespoke, and in the very fury of his superlatives, which seemed to gooff like blank cannons and hurt nothing. But we were hardly preparedto have it so confirmed by his appearance when Mr. Jarndyce presentedhim. He was not only a very handsome old gentleman--upright andstalwart as he had been described to us--with a massive grey head, afine composure of face when silent, a figure that might have becomecorpulent but for his being so continually in earnest that he gave itno rest, and a chin that might have subsided into a double chin butfor the vehement emphasis in which it was constantly required toassist; but he was such a true gentleman in his manner, sochivalrously polite, his face was lighted by a smile of so muchsweetness and tenderness, and it seemed so plain that he had nothingto hide, but showed himself exactly as he was--incapable, as Richardsaid, of anything on a limited scale, and firing away with thoseblank great guns because he carried no small arms whatever--thatreally I could not help looking at him with equal pleasure as he satat dinner, whether he smilingly conversed with Ada and me, or was ledby Mr. Jarndyce into some great volley of superlatives, or threw uphis head like a bloodhound and gave out that tremendous "Ha, ha, ha!"
"You have brought your bird with you, I suppose?" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"By heaven, he is the most astonishing bird in Europe!" replied theother. "He IS the most wonderful creature! I wouldn't take tenthousand guineas for that bird. I have left an annuity for his solesupport in case he should outlive me. He is, in sense and attachment,a phenomenon. And his father before him was one of the mostastonishing birds that ever lived!"
The subject of this laudation was a very little canary, who was sotame that he was brought down by Mr. Boythorn's man, on hisforefinger, and after taking a gentle flight round the room, alightedon his master's head. To hear Mr. Boythorn presently expressing themost implacable and passionate sentiments, with this fragile mite ofa creature quietly perched on his forehead, was to have a goodillustration of his character, I thought.
"By my soul, Jarndyce," he said, very gently holding up a bit ofbread to the canary to peck at, "if I were in your place I wouldseize every master in Chancery by the throat to-morrow morning andshake him until his money rolled out of his pockets and his bonesrattled in his skin. I would have a settlement out of somebody, byfair means or by foul. If you would empower me to do it, I would doit for you with the greatest satisfaction!" (All this time the verysmall canary was eating out of his hand.)
"I thank you, Lawrence, but the suit is hardly at such a point atpresent," returned Mr. Jarndyce, laughing, "that it would be greatlyadvanced even by the legal process of shaking the bench and the wholebar."
"There never was such an infernal cauldron as that Chancery on theface of the earth!" said Mr. Boythorn. "Nothing but a mine below iton a busy day in term time, with all its records, rules, andprecedents collected in it and every functionary belonging to italso, high and low, upward and downward, from its son theAccountant-General to its father the Devil, and the whole blown toatoms with ten thousand hundredweight of gunpowder, would reform itin the least!"
It was impossible not to laugh at the energetic gravity with which herecommended this strong measure of reform. When we laughed, he threwup his head and shook his broad chest, and again the whole countryseemed to echo to his "Ha, ha, ha!" It had not the least effect indisturbing the bird, whose sense of security was complete and whohopped about the table with its quick head now on this side and nowon that, turning its bright sudden eye on its master as if he were nomore than another bird.
"But how do you and your neighbour get on about the disputed right ofway?" said Mr. Jarndyce. "You are not free from the toils of the lawyourself!"
"The fellow has brought actions against ME for trespass, and I havebrought actions against HIM for trespass," returned Mr. Boythorn. "Byheaven, he is the proudest fellow breathing. It is morally impossiblethat his name can be Sir Leicester. It must be Sir Lucifer."
"Complimentary to our distant relation!" said my guardian laughinglyto Ada and Richard.
"I would beg Miss Clare's pardon and Mr. Carstone's pardon," resumedour visitor, "if I were not reassured by seeing in the fair face ofthe lady and the smile of the gentleman that it is quite unnecessaryand that they keep their distant relation at a comfortable distance."
"Or he keeps us," suggested Richard.
"By my soul," exclaimed Mr. Boythorn, suddenly firing another volley,"that fellow is, and his father was, and his grandfather was, themost stiff-necked, arrogant imbecile, pig-headed numskull, ever, bysome inexplicable mistake of Nature, born in any station of life buta walking-stick's! The whole of that family are the most solemnlyconceited and consummate blockheads! But it's no matter; he shouldnot shut up my path if he were fifty baronets melted into one andliving in a hundred Chesney Wolds, one within another, like the ivoryballs in a Chinese carving. The fellow, by his agent, or secretary,or somebody, writes to me 'Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, presentshis compliments to Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, and has to call hisattention to the fact that the green pathway by the oldparsonage-house, now the property of Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, is SirLeicester's right of way, being in fact a portion of the park ofChesney Wold, and that Sir Leicester finds it convenient to close upthe same.' I write to the fellow, 'Mr. Lawrence Boythorn presents hiscompliments to Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and has to call HISattention to the fact that he totally denies the whole of SirLeicester Dedlock's positions on every possible subject and has toadd, in reference to closing up the pathway, that he will be glad tosee the man who may undertake to do it.' The fellow sends a mostabandoned villain with one eye to construct a gateway. I play uponthat execrable scoundrel with a fire-engine until the breath isnearly driven out of his body. The fellow erects a gate in the night.I chop it down and burn it in the morning. He sends his myrmidons tocome over the fence and pass and repass. I catch them in humane mantraps, fire split peas at their legs, play upon them with theengine--resolve to free mankind from the insupportable burden of theexistence of those lurking ruffians. He brings actions for trespass;I bring actions for trespass. He brings actions for assault andbattery; I defend them and continue to assault and batter. Ha, ha,ha!"
To hear him say all this with unimaginable energy, one might havethought him the angriest of mankind. To see him at the very sametime, looking at the bird now perched upon his thumb and softlysmoothing its feathers with his forefinger, one might have thoughthim the gentlest. To hear him laugh and see the broad good nature ofhis face then, one might have supposed that he had not a care in theworld, or a dispute, or a dislike, but that his whole existence was asummer joke.
"No, no," he said, "no closing up of my paths by any Dedlock! ThoughI willingly confess," here he softened in a moment, "that LadyDedlock is the most accomplished lady in the world, to whom I woulddo any homage that a plain gentleman, and no baronet with a headseven hundred years thick, may. A man who joined his regiment attwenty and within a week challenged the most imperious andpresumptuous coxcomb of a commanding officer that ever drew thebreath of life through a tight waist--and got broke for it--is notthe man to be walked over by all the Sir Lucifers, dead or alive,locked or unlocked. Ha, ha, ha!"
"Nor the man to allow his junior to be walked over either?" said myguardian.
"Most assuredly not!" said Mr. Boythorn, clapping him on the shoulderwith an air of protection that had something serious in it, though helaughed. "He will stand by the low boy, always. Jarndyce, you mayrely upon him! But speaking of this trespass--with apologies to MissClare and Miss Summerson for the length at which I have pursued sodry a subject--is there nothing for me from your men Kenge andCarboy?"
"I think not, Esther?" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Nothing, guardian."
"Much obliged!" said Mr. Boythorn. "Had no need to ask, after even myslight experience of Miss Summerson's forethought for every one abouther." (They all encouraged me; they were determined to do it.) "Iinquired because, coming from Lincolnshire, I of course have not yetbeen in town, and I thought some letters might have been sent downhere. I dare say they will report progress to-morrow morning."
I saw him so often in the course of the evening, which passed verypleasantly, contemplate Richard and Ada with an interest and asatisfaction that made his fine face remarkably agreeable as he satat a little distance from the piano listening to the music--and hehad small occasion to tell us that he was passionately fond of music,for his face showed it--that I asked my guardian as we sat at thebackgammon board whether Mr. Boythorn had ever been married.
"No," said he. "No."
"But he meant to be!" said I.
"How did you find out that?" he returned with a smile. "Why,guardian," I explained, not without reddening a little at hazardingwhat was in my thoughts, "there is something so tender in his manner,after all, and he is so very courtly and gentle to us, and--"
Mr. Jarndyce directed his eyes to where he was sitting as I have justdescribed him.
I said no more.
"You are right, little woman," he answered. "He was all but marriedonce. Long ago. And once."
"Did the lady die?"
"No--but she died to him. That time has had its influence on all hislater life. Would you suppose him to have a head and a heart full ofromance yet?"
"I think, guardian, I might have supposed so. But it is easy to saythat when you have told me so."
"He has never since been what he might have been," said Mr. Jarndyce,"and now you see him in his age with no one near him but his servantand his little yellow friend. It's your throw, my dear!"
I felt, from my guardian's manner, that beyond this point I could notpursue the subject without changing the wind. I therefore forbore toask any further questions. I was interested, but not curious. Ithought a little while about this old love story in the night, when Iwas awakened by Mr. Boythorn's lusty snoring; and I tried to do thatvery difficult thing, imagine old people young again and investedwith the graces of youth. But I fell asleep before I had succeeded,and dreamed of the days when I lived in my godmother's house. I amnot sufficiently acquainted with such subjects to know whether it isat all remarkable that I almost always dreamed of that period of mylife.
With the morning there came a letter from Messrs. Kenge and Carboy toMr. Boythorn informing him that one of their clerks would wait uponhim at noon. As it was the day of the week on which I paid the bills,and added up my books, and made all the household affairs as compactas possible, I remained at home while Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and Richardtook advantage of a very fine day to make a little excursion, Mr.Boythorn was to wait for Kenge and Carboy's clerk and then was to goon foot to meet them on their return.
Well! I was full of business, examining tradesmen's books, adding upcolumns, paying money, filing receipts, and I dare say making a greatbustle about it when Mr. Guppy was announced and shown in. I had hadsome idea that the clerk who was to be sent down might be the younggentleman who had met me at the coach-office, and I was glad to seehim, because he was associated with my present happiness.
I scarcely knew him again, he was so uncommonly smart. He had anentirely new suit of glossy clothes on, a shining hat, lilac-kidgloves, a neckerchief of a variety of colours, a large hot-houseflower in his button-hole, and a thick gold ring on his littlefinger. Besides which, he quite scented the dining-room withbear's-grease and other perfumery. He looked at me with an attentionthat quite confused me when I begged him to take a seat until theservant should return; and as he sat there crossing and uncrossinghis legs in a corner, and I asked him if he had had a pleasant ride,and hoped that Mr. Kenge was well, I never looked at him, but I foundhim looking at me in the same scrutinizing and curious way.
When the request was brought to him that he would go upstairs to Mr.Boythorn's room, I mentioned that he would find lunch prepared forhim when he came down, of which Mr. Jarndyce hoped he would partake.He said with some embarrassment, holding the handle of the door,"Shall I have the honour of finding you here, miss?" I replied yes, Ishould be there; and he went out with a bow and another look.
I thought him only awkward and shy, for he was evidently muchembarrassed; and I fancied that the best thing I could do would be towait until I saw that he had everything he wanted and then to leavehim to himself. The lunch was soon brought, but it remained for sometime on the table. The interview with Mr. Boythorn was a long one,and a stormy one too, I should think, for although his room was atsome distance I heard his loud voice rising every now and then like ahigh wind, and evidently blowing perfect broadsides of denunciation.
At last Mr. Guppy came back, looking something the worse for theconference. "My eye, miss," he said in a low voice, "he's a Tartar!"
"Pray take some refreshment, sir," said I.
Mr. Guppy sat down at the table and began nervously sharpening thecarving-knife on the carving-fork, still looking at me (as I feltquite sure without looking at him) in the same unusual manner. Thesharpening lasted so long that at last I felt a kind of obligation onme to raise my eyes in order that I might break the spell under whichhe seemed to labour, of not being able to leave off.
He immediately looked at the dish and began to carve.
"What will you take yourself, miss? You'll take a morsel ofsomething?"
"No, thank you," said I.
"Shan't I give you a piece of anything at all, miss?" said Mr. Guppy,hurriedly drinking off a glass of wine.
"Nothing, thank you," said I. "I have only waited to see that youhave everything you want. Is there anything I can order for you?"
"No, I am much obliged to you, miss, I'm sure. I've everything that Ican require to make me comfortable--at least I--not comfortable--I'mnever that." He drank off two more glasses of wine, one afteranother.
I thought I had better go.
"I beg your pardon, miss!" said Mr. Guppy, rising when he saw merise. "But would you allow me the favour of a minute's privateconversation?"
Not knowing what to say, I sat down again.
"What follows is without prejudice, miss?" said Mr. Guppy, anxiouslybringing a chair towards my table.
"I don't understand what you mean," said I, wondering.
"It's one of our law terms, miss. You won't make any use of it to mydetriment at Kenge and Carboy's or elsewhere. If our conversationshouldn't lead to anything, I am to be as I was and am not to beprejudiced in my situation or worldly prospects. In short, it's intotal confidence."
"I am at a loss, sir," said I, "to imagine what you can have tocommunicate in total confidence to me, whom you have never seen butonce; but I should be very sorry to do you any injury."
"Thank you, miss. I'm sure of it--that's quite sufficient." All thistime Mr. Guppy was either planing his forehead with his handkerchiefor tightly rubbing the palm of his left hand with the palm of hisright. "If you would excuse my taking another glass of wine, miss, Ithink it might assist me in getting on without a continual choke thatcannot fail to be mutually unpleasant."
He did so, and came back again. I took the opportunity of moving wellbehind my table.
"You wouldn't allow me to offer you one, would you miss?" said Mr.Guppy, apparently refreshed.
"Not any," said I.
"Not half a glass?" said Mr. Guppy. "Quarter? No! Then, to proceed.My present salary, Miss Summerson, at Kenge and Carboy's, is twopound a week. When I first had the happiness of looking upon you, itwas one fifteen, and had stood at that figure for a lengthenedperiod. A rise of five has since taken place, and a further rise offive is guaranteed at the expiration of a term not exceeding twelvemonths from the present date. My mother has a little property, whichtakes the form of a small life annuity, upon which she lives in anindependent though unassuming manner in the Old Street Road. She iseminently calculated for a mother-in-law. She never interferes, isall for peace, and her disposition easy. She has her failings--as whohas not?--but I never knew her do it when company was present, atwhich time you may freely trust her with wines, spirits, or maltliquors. My own abode is lodgings at Penton Place, Pentonville. It islowly, but airy, open at the back, and considered one of the'ealthiest outlets. Miss Summerson! In the mildest language, I adoreyou. Would you be so kind as to allow me (as I may say) to file adeclaration--to make an offer!"
Mr. Guppy went down on his knees. I was well behind my table and notmuch frightened. I said, "Get up from that ridiculous positionimmediately, sir, or you will oblige me to break my implied promiseand ring the bell!"
"Hear me out, miss!" said Mr. Guppy, folding his hands.
"I cannot consent to hear another word, sir," I returned, "Unless youget up from the carpet directly and go and sit down at the table asyou ought to do if you have any sense at all."
He looked piteously, but slowly rose and did so.
"Yet what a mockery it is, miss," he said with his hand upon hisheart and shaking his head at me in a melancholy manner over thetray, "to be stationed behind food at such a moment. The soul recoilsfrom food at such a moment, miss."
"I beg you to conclude," said I; "you have asked me to hear you out,and I beg you to conclude."
"I will, miss," said Mr. Guppy. "As I love and honour, so likewise Iobey. Would that I could make thee the subject of that vow before theshrine!"
"That is quite impossible," said I, "and entirely out of thequestion."
"I am aware," said Mr. Guppy, leaning forward over the tray andregarding me, as I again strangely felt, though my eyes were notdirected to him, with his late intent look, "I am aware that in aworldly point of view, according to all appearances, my offer is apoor one. But, Miss Summerson! Angel! No, don't ring--I have beenbrought up in a sharp school and am accustomed to a variety ofgeneral practice. Though a young man, I have ferreted out evidence,got up cases, and seen lots of life. Blest with your hand, what meansmight I not find of advancing your interests and pushing yourfortunes! What might I not get to know, nearly concerning you? I knownothing now, certainly; but what MIGHT I not if I had yourconfidence, and you set me on?"
I told him that he addressed my interest or what he supposed to be myinterest quite as unsuccessfully as he addressed my inclination, andhe would now understand that I requested him, if he pleased, to goaway immediately.
"Cruel miss," said Mr. Guppy, "hear but another word! I think youmust have seen that I was struck with those charms on the day when Iwaited at the Whytorseller. I think you must have remarked that Icould not forbear a tribute to those charms when I put up the stepsof the 'ackney-coach. It was a feeble tribute to thee, but it waswell meant. Thy image has ever since been fixed in my breast. I havewalked up and down of an evening opposite Jellyby's house only tolook upon the bricks that once contained thee. This out of to-day,quite an unnecessary out so far as the attendance, which was itspretended object, went, was planned by me alone for thee alone. If Ispeak of interest, it is only to recommend myself and my respectfulwretchedness. Love was before it, and is before it."
"I should be pained, Mr. Guppy," said I, rising and putting my handupon the bell-rope, "to do you or any one who was sincere theinjustice of slighting any honest feeling, however disagreeablyexpressed. If you have really meant to give me a proof of your goodopinion, though ill-timed and misplaced, I feel that I ought to thankyou. I have very little reason to be proud, and I am not proud. Ihope," I think I added, without very well knowing what I said, "thatyou will now go away as if you had never been so exceedingly foolishand attend to Messrs. Kenge and Carboy's business."
"Half a minute, miss!" cried Mr. Guppy, checking me as I was about toring. "This has been without prejudice?"
"I will never mention it," said I, "unless you should give me futureoccasion to do so."
"A quarter of a minute, miss! In case you should think better at anytime, however distant--THAT'S no consequence, for my feelings cannever alter--of anything I have said, particularly what might I notdo, Mr. William Guppy, eighty-seven, Penton Place, or if removed, ordead (of blighted hopes or anything of that sort), care of Mrs.Guppy, three hundred and two, Old Street Road, will be sufficient."
I rang the bell, the servant came, and Mr. Guppy, laying his writtencard upon the table and making a dejected bow, departed. Raising myeyes as he went out, I once more saw him looking at me after he hadpassed the door.
I sat there for another hour or more, finishing my books and paymentsand getting through plenty of business. Then I arranged my desk, andput everything away, and was so composed and cheerful that I thoughtI had quite dismissed this unexpected incident. But, when I wentupstairs to my own room, I surprised myself by beginning to laughabout it and then surprised myself still more by beginning to cryabout it. In short, I was in a flutter for a little while and felt asif an old chord had been more coarsely touched than it ever had beensince the days of the dear old doll, long buried in the garden.



CHAPTER X
The Law-Writer

On the eastern borders of Chancery Lane, that is to say, moreparticularly in Cook's Court, Cursitor Street, Mr. Snagsby,law-stationer, pursues his lawful calling. In the shade of Cook'sCourt, at most times a shady place, Mr. Snagsby has dealt inall sorts of blank forms of legal process; in skins and rollsof parchment; in paper--foolscap, brief, draft, brown, white,whitey-brown, and blotting; in stamps; in office-quills, pens,ink, India-rubber, pounce, pins, pencils, sealing-wax, andwafers; in red tape and green ferret; in pocket-books, almanacs,diaries, and law lists; in string boxes, rulers, inkstands--glassand leaden--pen-knives, scissors, bodkins, and other smalloffice-cutlery; in short, in articles too numerous to mention, eversince he was out of his time and went into partnership with Peffer.On that occasion, Cook's Court was in a manner revolutionized by thenew inscription in fresh paint, PEFFER AND SNAGSBY, displacing thetime-honoured and not easily to be deciphered legend PEFFER only. Forsmoke, which is the London ivy, had so wreathed itself round Peffer'sname and clung to his dwelling-place that the affectionate parasitequite overpowered the parent tree.
Peffer is never seen in Cook's Court now. He is not expected there,for he has been recumbent this quarter of a century in the churchyardof St. Andrews, Holborn, with the waggons and hackney-coaches roaringpast him all the day and half the night like one great dragon. If heever steal forth when the dragon is at rest to air himself again inCook's Court until admonished to return by the crowing of thesanguine cock in the cellar at the little dairy in Cursitor Street,whose ideas of daylight it would be curious to ascertain, since heknows from his personal observation next to nothing about it--ifPeffer ever do revisit the pale glimpses of Cook's Court, which nolaw-stationer in the trade can positively deny, he comes invisibly,and no one is the worse or wiser.
In his lifetime, and likewise in the period of Snagsby's "time"of seven long years, there dwelt with Peffer in the samelaw-stationering premises a niece--a short, shrewd niece, somethingtoo violently compressed about the waist, and with a sharp nose likea sharp autumn evening, inclining to be frosty towards the end. TheCook's Courtiers had a rumour flying among them that the mother ofthis niece did, in her daughter's childhood, moved by too jealous asolicitude that her figure should approach perfection, lace herup every morning with her maternal foot against the bed-post fora stronger hold and purchase; and further, that she exhibitedinternally pints of vinegar and lemon-juice, which acids, they held,had mounted to the nose and temper of the patient. With whichsoeverof the many tongues of Rumour this frothy report originated, iteither never reached or never influenced the ears of young Snagsby,who, having wooed and won its fair subject on his arrival at man'sestate, entered into two partnerships at once. So now, in Cook'sCourt, Cursitor Street, Mr. Snagsby and the niece are one; and theniece still cherishes her figure, which, however tastes may differ,is unquestionably so far precious that there is mighty little of it.
Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby are not only one bone and one flesh, but, to theneighbours' thinking, one voice too. That voice, appearing to proceedfrom Mrs. Snagsby alone, is heard in Cook's Court very often. Mr.Snagsby, otherwise than as he finds expression through these dulcettones, is rarely heard. He is a mild, bald, timid man with a shininghead and a scrubby clump of black hair sticking out at the back. Hetends to meekness and obesity. As he stands at his door in Cook'sCourt in his grey shop-coat and black calico sleeves, looking up atthe clouds, or stands behind a desk in his dark shop with a heavyflat ruler, snipping and slicing at sheepskin in company with his two'prentices, he is emphatically a retiring and unassuming man. Frombeneath his feet, at such times, as from a shrill ghost unquiet inits grave, there frequently arise complainings and lamentations inthe voice already mentioned; and haply, on some occasions when thesereach a sharper pitch than usual, Mr. Snagsby mentions to the'prentices, "I think my little woman is a-giving it to Guster!"
This proper name, so used by Mr. Snagsby, has before now sharpenedthe wit of the Cook's Courtiers to remark that it ought to be thename of Mrs. Snagsby, seeing that she might with great force andexpression be termed a Guster, in compliment to her stormy character.It is, however, the possession, and the only possession except fiftyshillings per annum and a very small box indifferently filled withclothing, of a lean young woman from a workhouse (by some supposed tohave been christened Augusta) who, although she was farmed orcontracted for during her growing time by an amiable benefactor ofhis species resident at Tooting, and cannot fail to have beendeveloped under the most favourable circumstances, "has fits," whichthe parish can't account for.
Guster, really aged three or four and twenty, but looking a round tenyears older, goes cheap with this unaccountable drawback of fits, andis so apprehensive of being returned on the hands of her patron saintthat except when she is found with her head in the pail, or the sink,or the copper, or the dinner, or anything else that happens to benear her at the time of her seizure, she is always at work. She is asatisfaction to the parents and guardians of the 'prentices, who feelthat there is little danger of her inspiring tender emotions in thebreast of youth; she is a satisfaction to Mrs. Snagsby, who canalways find fault with her; she is a satisfaction to Mr. Snagsby, whothinks it a charity to keep her. The law-stationer's establishmentis, in Guster's eyes, a temple of plenty and splendour. She believesthe little drawing-room upstairs, always kept, as one may say, withits hair in papers and its pinafore on, to be the most elegantapartment in Christendom. The view it commands of Cook's Court at oneend (not to mention a squint into Cursitor Street) and of Coavinses'the sheriff's officer's backyard at the other she regards as aprospect of unequalled beauty. The portraits it displays in oil--andplenty of it too--of Mr. Snagsby looking at Mrs. Snagsby and of Mrs.Snagsby looking at Mr. Snagsby are in her eyes as achievements ofRaphael or Titian. Guster has some recompenses for her manyprivations.
Mr. Snagsby refers everything not in the practical mysteries of thebusiness to Mrs. Snagsby. She manages the money, reproaches thetax-gatherers, appoints the times and places of devotion on Sundays,licenses Mr. Snagsby's entertainments, and acknowledges noresponsibility as to what she thinks fit to provide for dinner,insomuch that she is the high standard of comparison among theneighbouring wives a long way down Chancery Lane on both sides, andeven out in Holborn, who in any domestic passages of arms habituallycall upon their husbands to look at the difference between their (thewives') position and Mrs. Snagsby's, and their (the husbands')behaviour and Mr. Snagsby's. Rumour, always flying bat-like aboutCook's Court and skimming in and out at everybody's windows, does saythat Mrs. Snagsby is jealous and inquisitive and that Mr. Snagsby issometimes worried out of house and home, and that if he had thespirit of a mouse he wouldn't stand it. It is even observed that thewives who quote him to their self-willed husbands as a shiningexample in reality look down upon him and that nobody does so withgreater superciliousness than one particular lady whose lord is morethan suspected of laying his umbrella on her as an instrument ofcorrection. But these vague whisperings may arise from Mr. Snagsby'sbeing in his way rather a meditative and poetical man, loving to walkin Staple Inn in the summer-time and to observe how countrified thesparrows and the leaves are, also to lounge about the Rolls Yard of aSunday afternoon and to remark (if in good spirits) that there wereold times once and that you'd find a stone coffin or two now underthat chapel, he'll be bound, if you was to dig for it. He solaces hisimagination, too, by thinking of the many Chancellors and Vices, andMasters of the Rolls who are deceased; and he gets such a flavour ofthe country out of telling the two 'prentices how he HAS heard saythat a brook "as clear as crystal" once ran right down the middle ofHolborn, when Turnstile really was a turnstile, leading slap awayinto the meadows--gets such a flavour of the country out of this thathe never wants to go there.
The day is closing in and the gas is lighted, but is not yet fullyeffective, for it is not quite dark. Mr. Snagsby standing at hisshop-door looking up at the clouds sees a crow who is out late skimwestward over the slice of sky belonging to Cook's Court. The crowflies straight across Chancery Lane and Lincoln's Inn Garden intoLincoln's Inn Fields.
Here, in a large house, formerly a house of state, lives Mr.Tulkinghorn. It is let off in sets of chambers now, and in thoseshrunken fragments of its greatness, lawyers lie like maggots innuts. But its roomy staircases, passages, and antechambers stillremain; and even its painted ceilings, where Allegory, in Romanhelmet and celestial linen, sprawls among balustrades and pillars,flowers, clouds, and big-legged boys, and makes the head ache--aswould seem to be Allegory's object always, more or less. Here, amonghis many boxes labelled with transcendent names, lives Mr.Tulkinghorn, when not speechlessly at home in country-houses wherethe great ones of the earth are bored to death. Here he is to-day,quiet at his table. An oyster of the old school whom nobody can open.
Like as he is to look at, so is his apartment in the dusk ofthe present afternoon. Rusty, out of date, withdrawing fromattention, able to afford it. Heavy, broad-backed, old-fashioned,mahogany-and-horsehair chairs, not easily lifted; obsolete tableswith spindle-legs and dusty baize covers; presentation prints of theholders of great titles in the last generation or the last but one,environ him. A thick and dingy Turkey-carpet muffles the floor wherehe sits, attended by two candles in old-fashioned silver candlesticksthat give a very insufficient light to his large room. The titles onthe backs of his books have retired into the binding; everything thatcan have a lock has got one; no key is visible. Very few loose papersare about. He has some manuscript near him, but is not referringto it. With the round top of an inkstand and two broken bits ofsealing-wax he is silently and slowly working out whatever train ofindecision is in his mind. Now the inkstand top is in the middle, nowthe red bit of sealing-wax, now the black bit. That's not it. Mr.Tulkinghorn must gather them all up and begin again.
Here, beneath the painted ceiling, with foreshortened Allegorystaring down at his intrusion as if it meant to swoop upon him, andhe cutting it dead, Mr. Tulkinghorn has at once his house and office.He keeps no staff, only one middle-aged man, usually a little out atelbows, who sits in a high pew in the hall and is rarely overburdenedwith business. Mr. Tulkinghorn is not in a common way. He wants noclerks. He is a great reservoir of confidences, not to be so tapped.His clients want HIM; he is all in all. Drafts that he requires to bedrawn are drawn by special-pleaders in the temple on mysteriousinstructions; fair copies that he requires to be made are made at thestationers', expense being no consideration. The middle-aged man inthe pew knows scarcely more of the affairs of the peerage than anycrossing-sweeper in Holborn.
The red bit, the black bit, the inkstand top, the other inkstand top,the little sand-box. So! You to the middle, you to the right, you tothe left. This train of indecision must surely be worked out now ornever. Now! Mr. Tulkinghorn gets up, adjusts his spectacles, puts onhis hat, puts the manuscript in his pocket, goes out, tells themiddle-aged man out at elbows, "I shall be back presently." Veryrarely tells him anything more explicit.
Mr. Tulkinghorn goes, as the crow came--not quite so straight, butnearly--to Cook's Court, Cursitor Street. To Snagsby's,Law-Stationer's, Deeds engrossed and copied, Law-Writing executed inall its branches, &c., &c., &c.
It is somewhere about five or six o'clock in the afternoon, and abalmy fragrance of warm tea hovers in Cook's Court. It hovers aboutSnagsby's door. The hours are early there: dinner at half-past oneand supper at half-past nine. Mr. Snagsby was about to descend intothe subterranean regions to take tea when he looked out of his doorjust now and saw the crow who was out late.
"Master at home?"
Guster is minding the shop, for the 'prentices take tea in thekitchen with Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby; consequently, the robe-maker's twodaughters, combing their curls at the two glasses in the twosecond-floor windows of the opposite house, are not driving the two'prentices to distraction as they fondly suppose, but are merelyawakening the unprofitable admiration of Guster, whose hair won'tgrow, and never would, and it is confidently thought, never will.
"Master at home?" says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
Master is at home, and Guster will fetch him. Guster disappears, gladto get out of the shop, which she regards with mingled dread andveneration as a storehouse of awful implements of the great tortureof the law--a place not to be entered after the gas is turned off.
Mr. Snagsby appears, greasy, warm, herbaceous, and chewing. Bolts abit of bread and butter. Says, "Bless my soul, sir! Mr. Tulkinghorn!"
"I want half a word with you, Snagsby."
"Certainly, sir! Dear me, sir, why didn't you send your young manround for me? Pray walk into the back shop, sir." Snagsby hasbrightened in a moment.
The confined room, strong of parchment-grease, is warehouse,counting-house, and copying-office. Mr. Tulkinghorn sits, facinground, on a stool at the desk.
"Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Snagsby."
"Yes, sir." Mr. Snagsby turns up the gas and coughs behind his hand,modestly anticipating profit. Mr. Snagsby, as a timid man, isaccustomed to cough with a variety of expressions, and so to savewords.
"You copied some affidavits in that cause for me lately."
"Yes, sir, we did."
"There was one of them," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, carelesslyfeeling--tight, unopenable oyster of the old school!--in the wrongcoat-pocket, "the handwriting of which is peculiar, and I ratherlike. As I happened to be passing, and thought I had it about me, Ilooked in to ask you--but I haven't got it. No matter, any other timewill do. Ah! here it is! I looked in to ask you who copied this."
"Who copied this, sir?" says Mr. Snagsby, taking it, laying it flaton the desk, and separating all the sheets at once with a twirl and atwist of the left hand peculiar to lawstationers. "We gave this out,sir. We were giving out rather a large quantity of work just at thattime. I can tell you in a moment who copied it, sir, by referring tomy book."
Mr. Snagsby takes his book down from the safe, makes another bolt ofthe bit of bread and butter which seemed to have stopped short, eyesthe affidavit aside, and brings his right forefinger travelling downa page of the book, "Jewby--Packer--Jarndyce."
"Jarndyce! Here we are, sir," says Mr. Snagsby. "To be sure! I mighthave remembered it. This was given out, sir, to a writer who lodgesjust over on the opposite side of the lane."
Mr. Tulkinghorn has seen the entry, found it before thelaw-stationer, read it while the forefinger was coming down the hill.
"WHAT do you call him? Nemo?" says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "Nemo, sir. Hereit is. Forty-two folio. Given out on the Wednesday night at eighto'clock, brought in on the Thursday morning at half after nine."
"Nemo!" repeats Mr. Tulkinghorn. "Nemo is Latin for no one."
"It must be English for some one, sir, I think," Mr. Snagsby submitswith his deferential cough. "It is a person's name. Here it is, yousee, sir! Forty-two folio. Given out Wednesday night, eight o'clock;brought in Thursday morning, half after nine."
The tail of Mr. Snagsby's eye becomes conscious of the head of Mrs.Snagsby looking in at the shop-door to know what he means bydeserting his tea. Mr. Snagsby addresses an explanatory cough to Mrs.Snagsby, as who should say, "My dear, a customer!"
"Half after nine, sir," repeats Mr. Snagsby. "Our law-writers, wholive by job-work, are a queer lot; and this may not be his name, butit's the name he goes by. I remember now, sir, that he gives it in awritten advertisement he sticks up down at the Rule Office, and theKing's Bench Office, and the Judges' Chambers, and so forth. You knowthe kind of document, sir--wanting employ?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn glances through the little window at the back ofCoavinses', the sheriff's officer's, where lights shine in Coavinses'windows. Coavinses' coffee-room is at the back, and the shadows ofseveral gentlemen under a cloud loom cloudily upon the blinds. Mr.Snagsby takes the opportunity of slightly turning his head to glanceover his shoulder at his little woman and to make apologetic motionswith his mouth to this effect: "Tul-king-horn--rich--in-flu-en-tial!"
"Have you given this man work before?" asks Mr. Tulkinghorn.
"Oh, dear, yes, sir! Work of yours."
"Thinking of more important matters, I forget where you said helived?"
"Across the lane, sir. In fact, he lodges at a--" Mr. Snagsby makesanother bolt, as if the bit of bread and butter were insurmountable"--at a rag and bottle shop."
"Can you show me the place as I go back?"
"With the greatest pleasure, sir!"
Mr. Snagsby pulls off his sleeves and his grey coat, pulls on hisblack coat, takes his hat from its peg. "Oh! Here is my littlewoman!" he says aloud. "My dear, will you be so kind as to tell oneof the lads to look after the shop while I step across the lane withMr. Tulkinghorn? Mrs. Snagsby, sir--I shan't be two minutes, mylove!"
Mrs. Snagsby bends to the lawyer, retires behind the counter, peepsat them through the window-blind, goes softly into the back office,refers to the entries in the book still lying open. Is evidentlycurious.
"You will find that the place is rough, sir," says Mr. Snagsby,walking deferentially in the road and leaving the narrow pavement tothe lawyer; "and the party is very rough. But they're a wild lot ingeneral, sir. The advantage of this particular man is that he neverwants sleep. He'll go at it right on end if you want him to, as longas ever you like."
It is quite dark now, and the gas-lamps have acquired their fulleffect. Jostling against clerks going to post the day's letters, andagainst counsel and attorneys going home to dinner, and againstplaintiffs and defendants and suitors of all sorts, and against thegeneral crowd, in whose way the forensic wisdom of ages hasinterposed a million of obstacles to the transaction of the commonestbusiness of life; diving through law and equity, and through thatkindred mystery, the street mud, which is made of nobody knows whatand collects about us nobody knows whence or how--we only knowing ingeneral that when there is too much of it we find it necessary toshovel it away--the lawyer and the law-stationer come to a rag andbottle shop and general emporium of much disregarded merchandise,lying and being in the shadow of the wall of Lincoln's Inn, and kept,as is announced in paint, to all whom it may concern, by one Krook.
"This is where he lives, sir," says the law-stationer.
"This is where he lives, is it?" says the lawyer unconcernedly."Thank you."
"Are you not going in, sir?"
"No, thank you, no; I am going on to the Fields at present. Goodevening. Thank you!" Mr. Snagsby lifts his hat and returns to hislittle woman and his tea.
But Mr. Tulkinghorn does not go on to the Fields at present. He goesa short way, turns back, comes again to the shop of Mr. Krook, andenters it straight. It is dim enough, with a blot-headed candle or soin the windows, and an old man and a cat sitting in the back part bya fire. The old man rises and comes forward, with another blot-headedcandle in his hand.
"Pray is your lodger within?"
"Male or female, sir?" says Mr. Krook.
"Male. The person who does copying."
Mr. Krook has eyed his man narrowly. Knows him by sight. Has anindistinct impression of his aristocratic repute.
"Did you wish to see him, sir?"
"Yes."
"It's what I seldom do myself," says Mr. Krook with a grin. "Shall Icall him down? But it's a weak chance if he'd come, sir!"
"I'll go up to him, then," says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
"Second floor, sir. Take the candle. Up there!" Mr. Krook, with hiscat beside him, stands at the bottom of the staircase, looking afterMr. Tulkinghorn. "Hi-hi!" he says when Mr. Tulkinghorn has nearlydisappeared. The lawyer looks down over the hand-rail. The catexpands her wicked mouth and snarls at him.
"Order, Lady Jane! Behave yourself to visitors, my lady! You knowwhat they say of my lodger?" whispers Krook, going up a step or two.
"What do they say of him?"
"They say he has sold himself to the enemy, but you and I knowbetter--he don't buy. I'll tell you what, though; my lodger is soblack-humoured and gloomy that I believe he'd as soon make thatbargain as any other. Don't put him out, sir. That's my advice!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn with a nod goes on his way. He comes to the dark dooron the second floor. He knocks, receives no answer, opens it, andaccidentally extinguishes his candle in doing so.
The air of the room is almost bad enough to have extinguished it ifhe had not. It is a small room, nearly black with soot, and grease,and dirt. In the rusty skeleton of a grate, pinched at the middle asif poverty had gripped it, a red coke fire burns low. In the cornerby the chimney stand a deal table and a broken desk, a wildernessmarked with a rain of ink. In another corner a ragged old portmanteauon one of the two chairs serves for cabinet or wardrobe; no largerone is needed, for it collapses like the cheeks of a starved man. Thefloor is bare, except that one old mat, trodden to shreds ofrope-yarn, lies perishing upon the hearth. No curtain veils thedarkness of the night, but the discoloured shutters are drawntogether, and through the two gaunt holes pierced in them, faminemight be staring in--the banshee of the man upon the bed.
For, on a low bed opposite the fire, a confusion of dirty patchwork,lean-ribbed ticking, and coarse sacking, the lawyer, hesitating justwithin the doorway, sees a man. He lies there, dressed in shirt andtrousers, with bare feet. He has a yellow look in the spectraldarkness of a candle that has guttered down until the whole length ofits wick (still burning) has doubled over and left a tower ofwinding-sheet above it. His hair is ragged, mingling with hiswhiskers and his beard--the latter, ragged too, and grown, like thescum and mist around him, in neglect. Foul and filthy as the room is,foul and filthy as the air is, it is not easy to perceive what fumesthose are which most oppress the senses in it; but through thegeneral sickliness and faintness, and the odour of stale tobacco,there comes into the lawyer's mouth the bitter, vapid taste of opium.
"Hallo, my friend!" he cries, and strikes his iron candlestickagainst the door.
He thinks he has awakened his friend. He lies a little turned away,but his eyes are surely open.
"Hallo, my friend!" he cries again. "Hallo! Hallo!"
As he rattles on the door, the candle which has drooped so long goesout and leaves him in the dark, with the gaunt eyes in the shuttersstaring down upon the bed.



CHAPTER XI
Our Dear Brother

A touch on the lawyer's wrinkled hand as he stands in the dark room,irresolute, makes him start and say, "What's that?"
"It's me," returns the old man of the house, whose breath is in hisear. "Can't you wake him?"
"No."
"What have you done with your candle?"
"It's gone out. Here it is."
Krook takes it, goes to the fire, stoops over the red embers, andtries to get a light. The dying ashes have no light to spare, and hisendeavours are vain. Muttering, after an ineffectual call to hislodger, that he will go downstairs and bring a lighted candle fromthe shop, the old man departs. Mr. Tulkinghorn, for some new reasonthat he has, does not await his return in the room, but on the stairsoutside.
The welcome light soon shines upon the wall, as Krook comes slowly upwith his green-eyed cat following at his heels. "Does the mangenerally sleep like this?" inquired the lawyer in a low voice. "Hi!I don't know," says Krook, shaking his head and lifting his eyebrows."I know next to nothing of his habits except that he keeps himselfvery close."
Thus whispering, they both go in together. As the light goes in, thegreat eyes in the shutters, darkening, seem to close. Not so the eyesupon the bed.
"God save us!" exclaims Mr. Tulkinghorn. "He is dead!" Krook dropsthe heavy hand he has taken up so suddenly that the arm swings overthe bedside.
They look at one another for a moment.
"Send for some doctor! Call for Miss Flite up the stairs, sir. Here'spoison by the bed! Call out for Flite, will you?" says Krook, withhis lean hands spread out above the body like a vampire's wings.
Mr. Tulkinghorn hurries to the landing and calls, "Miss Flite! Flite!Make haste, here, whoever you are! Flite!" Krook follows him with hiseyes, and while he is calling, finds opportunity to steal to the oldportmanteau and steal back again.
"Run, Flite, run! The nearest doctor! Run!" So Mr. Krook addresses acrazy little woman who is his female lodger, who appears and vanishesin a breath, who soon returns accompanied by a testy medical manbrought from his dinner, with a broad, snuffy upper lip and a broadScotch tongue.
"Ey! Bless the hearts o' ye," says the medical man, looking up atthem after a moment's examination. "He's just as dead as Phairy!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn (standing by the old portmanteau) inquires if he hasbeen dead any time.
"Any time, sir?" says the medical gentleman. "It's probable he wullhave been dead aboot three hours."
"About that time, I should say," observes a dark young man on theother side of the bed.
"Air you in the maydickle prayfession yourself, sir?" inquires thefirst.
The dark young man says yes.
"Then I'll just tak' my depairture," replies the other, "for I'm naegude here!" With which remark he finishes his brief attendance andreturns to finish his dinner.
The dark young surgeon passes the candle across and across the faceand carefully examines the law-writer, who has established hispretensions to his name by becoming indeed No one.
"I knew this person by sight very well," says he. "He has purchasedopium of me for the last year and a half. Was anybody present relatedto him?" glancing round upon the three bystanders.
"I was his landlord," grimly answers Krook, taking the candle fromthe surgeon's outstretched hand. "He told me once I was the nearestrelation he had."
"He has died," says the surgeon, "of an over-dose of opium, there isno doubt. The room is strongly flavoured with it. There is enoughhere now," taking an old tea-pot from Mr. Krook, "to kill a dozenpeople."
"Do you think he did it on purpose?" asks Krook.
"Took the over-dose?"
"Yes!" Krook almost smacks his lips with the unction of a horribleinterest.
"I can't say. I should think it unlikely, as he has been in the habitof taking so much. But nobody can tell. He was very poor, I suppose?"
"I suppose he was. His room--don't look rich," says Krook, who mighthave changed eyes with his cat, as he casts his sharp glance around."But I have never been in it since he had it, and he was too close toname his circumstances to me."
"Did he owe you any rent?"
"Six weeks."
"He will never pay it!" says the young man, resuming his examination."It is beyond a doubt that he is indeed as dead as Pharaoh; and tojudge from his appearance and condition, I should think it a happyrelease. Yet he must have been a good figure when a youth, and I daresay, good-looking." He says this, not unfeelingly, while sitting onthe bedstead's edge with his face towards that other face and hishand upon the region of the heart. "I recollect once thinking therewas something in his manner, uncouth as it was, that denoted a fallin life. Was that so?" he continues, looking round.
Krook replies, "You might as well ask me to describe the ladies whoseheads of hair I have got in sacks downstairs. Than that he was mylodger for a year and a half and lived--or didn't live--bylaw-writing, I know no more of him."
During this dialogue Mr. Tulkinghorn has stood aloof by the oldportmanteau, with his hands behind him, equally removed, to allappearance, from all three kinds of interest exhibited near thebed--from the young surgeon's professional interest in death,noticeable as being quite apart from his remarks on the deceased asan individual; from the old man's unction; and the little crazywoman's awe. His imperturbable face has been as inexpressive as hisrusty clothes. One could not even say he has been thinking all thiswhile. He has shown neither patience nor impatience, nor attentionnor abstraction. He has shown nothing but his shell. As easily mightthe tone of a delicate musical instrument be inferred from its case,as the tone of Mr. Tulkinghorn from his case.
He now interposes, addressing the young surgeon in his unmoved,professional way.
"I looked in here," he observes, "just before you, with theintention of giving this deceased man, whom I never saw alive, someemployment at his trade of copying. I had heard of him from mystationer--Snagsby of Cook's Court. Since no one here knows anythingabout him, it might be as well to send for Snagsby. Ah!" to thelittle crazy woman, who has often seen him in court, and whom he hasoften seen, and who proposes, in frightened dumb-show, to go for thelaw-stationer. "Suppose you do!"
While she is gone, the surgeon abandons his hopeless investigationand covers its subject with the patchwork counterpane. Mr. Krook andhe interchange a word or two. Mr. Tulkinghorn says nothing, butstands, ever, near the old portmanteau.
Mr. Snagsby arrives hastily in his grey coat and his black sleeves."Dear me, dear me," he says; "and it has come to this, has it! Blessmy soul!"
"Can you give the person of the house any information about thisunfortunate creature, Snagsby?" inquires Mr. Tulkinghorn. "He was inarrears with his rent, it seems. And he must be buried, you know."
"Well, sir," says Mr. Snagsby, coughing his apologetic cough behindhis hand, "I really don't know what advice I could offer, exceptsending for the beadle."
"I don't speak of advice," returns Mr. Tulkinghorn. "I couldadvise--"
"No one better, sir, I am sure," says Mr. Snagsby, with hisdeferential cough.
"I speak of affording some clue to his connexions, or to where hecame from, or to anything concerning him."
"I assure you, sir," says Mr. Snagsby after prefacing his reply withhis cough of general propitiation, "that I no more know where he camefrom than I know--"
"Where he has gone to, perhaps," suggests the surgeon to help himout.
A pause. Mr. Tulkinghorn looking at the law-stationer. Mr. Krook,with his mouth open, looking for somebody to speak next.
"As to his connexions, sir," says Mr. Snagsby, "if a person was tosay to me, 'Snagsby, here's twenty thousand pound down, ready for youin the Bank of England if you'll only name one of 'em,' I couldn't doit, sir! About a year and a half ago--to the best of my belief, atthe time when he first came to lodge at the present rag and bottleshop--"
"That was the time!" says Krook with a nod.
"About a year and a half ago," says Mr. Snagsby, strengthened, "hecame into our place one morning after breakfast, and finding mylittle woman (which I name Mrs. Snagsby when I use that appellation)in our shop, produced a specimen of his handwriting and gave her tounderstand that he was in want of copying work to do and was, not toput too fine a point upon it," a favourite apology for plain speakingwith Mr. Snagsby, which he always offers with a sort of argumentativefrankness, "hard up! My little woman is not in general partial tostrangers, particular--not to put too fine a point upon it--when theywant anything. But she was rather took by something about thisperson, whether by his being unshaved, or by his hair being in wantof attention, or by what other ladies' reasons, I leave you to judge;and she accepted of the specimen, and likewise of the address. Mylittle woman hasn't a good ear for names," proceeds Mr. Snagsby afterconsulting his cough of consideration behind his hand, "and sheconsidered Nemo equally the same as Nimrod. In consequence of which,she got into a habit of saying to me at meals, 'Mr. Snagsby, youhaven't found Nimrod any work yet!' or 'Mr. Snagsby, why didn't yougive that eight and thirty Chancery folio in Jarndyce to Nimrod?' orsuch like. And that is the way he gradually fell into job-work at ourplace; and that is the most I know of him except that he was a quickhand, and a hand not sparing of night-work, and that if you gave himout, say, five and forty folio on the Wednesday night, you would haveit brought in on the Thursday morning. All of which--" Mr. Snagsbyconcludes by politely motioning with his hat towards the bed, as muchas to add, "I have no doubt my honourable friend would confirm if hewere in a condition to do it."
"Hadn't you better see," says Mr. Tulkinghorn to Krook, "whether hehad any papers that may enlighten you? There will be an inquest, andyou will be asked the question. You can read?"
"No, I can't," returns the old man with a sudden grin.
"Snagsby," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "look over the room for him. He willget into some trouble or difficulty otherwise. Being here, I'll waitif you make haste, and then I can testify on his behalf, if it shouldever be necessary, that all was fair and right. If you will hold thecandle for Mr. Snagsby, my friend, he'll soon see whether there isanything to help you."
"In the first place, here's an old portmanteau, sir," says Snagsby.
Ah, to be sure, so there is! Mr. Tulkinghorn does not appear to haveseen it before, though he is standing so close to it, and thoughthere is very little else, heaven knows.
The marine-store merchant holds the light, and the law-stationerconducts the search. The surgeon leans against the corner of thechimney-piece; Miss Flite peeps and trembles just within the door.The apt old scholar of the old school, with his dull black breechestied with ribbons at the knees, his large black waistcoat, hislong-sleeved black coat, and his wisp of limp white neckerchief tiedin the bow the peerage knows so well, stands in exactly the sameplace and attitude.
There are some worthless articles of clothing in the old portmanteau;there is a bundle of pawnbrokers' duplicates, those turnpike ticketson the road of poverty; there is a crumpled paper, smelling of opium,on which are scrawled rough memoranda--as, took, such a day, so manygrains; took, such another day, so many more--begun some time ago, asif with the intention of being regularly continued, but soon leftoff. There are a few dirty scraps of newspapers, all referring tocoroners' inquests; there is nothing else. They search the cupboardand the drawer of the ink-splashed table. There is not a morsel of anold letter or of any other writing in either. The young surgeonexamines the dress on the law-writer. A knife and some odd halfpenceare all he finds. Mr. Snagsby's suggestion is the practicalsuggestion after all, and the beadle must be called in.
So the little crazy lodger goes for the beadle, and the rest come outof the room. "Don't leave the cat there!" says the surgeon; "thatwon't do!" Mr. Krook therefore drives her out before him, and shegoes furtively downstairs, winding her lithe tail and licking herlips.
"Good night!" says Mr. Tulkinghorn, and goes home to Allegory andmeditation.
By this time the news has got into the court. Groups of itsinhabitants assemble to discuss the thing, and the outposts of thearmy of observation (principally boys) are pushed forward to Mr.Krook's window, which they closely invest. A policeman has alreadywalked up to the room, and walked down again to the door, where hestands like a tower, only condescending to see the boys at his baseoccasionally; but whenever he does see them, they quail and fallback. Mrs. Perkins, who has not been for some weeks on speaking termswith Mrs. Piper in consequence for an unpleasantness originating inyoung Perkins' having "fetched" young Piper "a crack," renews herfriendly intercourse on this auspicious occasion. The potboy at thecorner, who is a privileged amateur, as possessing official knowledgeof life and having to deal with drunken men occasionally, exchangesconfidential communications with the policeman and has the appearanceof an impregnable youth, unassailable by truncheons and unconfinablein station-houses. People talk across the court out of window, andbare-headed scouts come hurrying in from Chancery Lane to know what'sthe matter. The general feeling seems to be that it's a blessing Mr.Krook warn't made away with first, mingled with a little naturaldisappointment that he was not. In the midst of this sensation, thebeadle arrives.
The beadle, though generally understood in the neighbourhood to be aridiculous institution, is not without a certain popularity for themoment, if it were only as a man who is going to see the body. Thepoliceman considers him an imbecile civilian, a remnant of thebarbarous watchmen times, but gives him admission as something thatmust be borne with until government shall abolish him. The sensationis heightened as the tidings spread from mouth to mouth that thebeadle is on the ground and has gone in.
By and by the beadle comes out, once more intensifying the sensation,which has rather languished in the interval. He is understood to bein want of witnesses for the inquest to-morrow who can tell thecoroner and jury anything whatever respecting the deceased. Isimmediately referred to innumerable people who can tell nothingwhatever. Is made more imbecile by being constantly informed thatMrs. Green's son "was a law-writer his-self and knowed him betterthan anybody," which son of Mrs. Green's appears, on inquiry, to beat the present time aboard a vessel bound for China, three monthsout, but considered accessible by telegraph on application to theLords of the Admiralty. Beadle goes into various shops and parlours,examining the inhabitants, always shutting the door first, and byexclusion, delay, and general idiotcy exasperating the public.Policeman seen to smile to potboy. Public loses interest andundergoes reaction. Taunts the beadle in shrill youthful voices withhaving boiled a boy, choruses fragments of a popular song to thateffect and importing that the boy was made into soup for theworkhouse. Policeman at last finds it necessary to support the lawand seize a vocalist, who is released upon the flight of the rest oncondition of his getting out of this then, come, and cutting it--acondition he immediately observes. So the sensation dies off for thetime; and the unmoved policeman (to whom a little opium, more orless, is nothing), with his shining hat, stiff stock, inflexiblegreat-coat, stout belt and bracelet, and all things fitting, pursueshis lounging way with a heavy tread, beating the palms of his whitegloves one against the other and stopping now and then at astreet-corner to look casually about for anything between a lostchild and a murder.
Under cover of the night, the feeble-minded beadle comes flittingabout Chancery Lane with his summonses, in which every juror's nameis wrongly spelt, and nothing rightly spelt but the beadle's ownname, which nobody can read or wants to know. The summonses servedand his witnesses forewarned, the beadle goes to Mr. Krook's to keepa small appointment he has made with certain paupers, who, presentlyarriving, are conducted upstairs, where they leave the great eyes inthe shutter something new to stare at, in that last shape whichearthly lodgings take for No one--and for Every one.
And all that night the coffin stands ready by the old portmanteau;and the lonely figure on the bed, whose path in life has lain throughfive and forty years, lies there with no more track behind him thatany one can trace than a deserted infant.
Next day the court is all alive--is like a fair, as Mrs. Perkins,more than reconciled to Mrs. Piper, says in amicable conversationwith that excellent woman. The coroner is to sit in the first-floorroom at the Sol's Arms, where the Harmonic Meetings take place twicea week and where the chair is filled by a gentleman of professionalcelebrity, faced by Little Swills, the comic vocalist, who hopes(according to the bill in the window) that his friends will rallyround him and support first-rate talent. The Sol's Arms does a briskstroke of business all the morning. Even children so requiresustaining under the general excitement that a pieman who hasestablished himself for the occasion at the corner of the court sayshis brandy-balls go off like smoke. What time the beadle, hoveringbetween the door of Mr. Krook's establishment and the door of theSol's Arms, shows the curiosity in his keeping to a few discreetspirits and accepts the compliment of a glass of ale or so in return.
At the appointed hour arrives the coroner, for whom the jurymen arewaiting and who is received with a salute of skittles from the gooddry skittle-ground attached to the Sol's Arms. The coroner frequentsmore public-houses than any man alive. The smell of sawdust, beer,tobacco-smoke, and spirits is inseparable in his vocation from deathin its most awful shapes. He is conducted by the beadle and thelandlord to the Harmonic Meeting Room, where he puts his hat on thepiano and takes a Windsor-chair at the head of a long table formed ofseveral short tables put together and ornamented with glutinous ringsin endless involutions, made by pots and glasses. As many of the juryas can crowd together at the table sit there. The rest get among thespittoons and pipes or lean against the piano. Over the coroner'shead is a small iron garland, the pendant handle of a bell, whichrather gives the majesty of the court the appearance of going to behanged presently.
Call over and swear the jury! While the ceremony is in progress,sensation is created by the entrance of a chubby little man in alarge shirt-collar, with a moist eye and an inflamed nose, whomodestly takes a position near the door as one of the general public,but seems familiar with the room too. A whisper circulates that thisis Little Swills. It is considered not unlikely that he will get upan imitation of the coroner and make it the principal feature of theHarmonic Meeting in the evening.
"Well, gentlemen--" the coroner begins.
"Silence there, will you!" says the beadle. Not to the coroner,though it might appear so.
"Well, gentlemen," resumes the coroner. "You are impanelled here toinquire into the death of a certain man. Evidence will be givenbefore you as to the circumstances attending that death, and you willgive your verdict according to the--skittles; they must be stopped,you know, beadle!--evidence, and not according to anything else. Thefirst thing to be done is to view the body."
"Make way there!" cries the beadle.
So they go out in a loose procession, something after the manner of astraggling funeral, and make their inspection in Mr. Krook's backsecond floor, from which a few of the jurymen retire pale andprecipitately. The beadle is very careful that two gentlemen not veryneat about the cuffs and buttons (for whose accommodation he hasprovided a special little table near the coroner in the HarmonicMeeting Room) should see all that is to be seen. For they are thepublic chroniclers of such inquiries by the line; and he is notsuperior to the universal human infirmity, but hopes to read in printwhat "Mooney, the active and intelligent beadle of the district,"said and did and even aspires to see the name of Mooney as familiarlyand patronizingly mentioned as the name of the hangman is, accordingto the latest examples.
Little Swills is waiting for the coroner and jury on their return.Mr. Tulkinghorn, also. Mr. Tulkinghorn is received with distinctionand seated near the coroner between that high judicial officer, abagatelle-board, and the coal-box. The inquiry proceeds. The jurylearn how the subject of their inquiry died, and learn no more abouthim. "A very eminent solicitor is in attendance, gentlemen," says thecoroner, "who, I am informed, was accidentally present when discoveryof the death was made, but he could only repeat the evidence you havealready heard from the surgeon, the landlord, the lodger, and thelaw-stationer, and it is not necessary to trouble him. Is anybody inattendance who knows anything more?"
Mrs. Piper pushed forward by Mrs. Perkins. Mrs. Piper sworn.
Anastasia Piper, gentlemen. Married woman. Now, Mrs. Piper, what haveyou got to say about this?
Why, Mrs. Piper has a good deal to say, chiefly in parentheses andwithout punctuation, but not much to tell. Mrs. Piper lives in thecourt (which her husband is a cabinet-maker), and it has long beenwell beknown among the neighbours (counting from the day next but onebefore the half-baptizing of Alexander James Piper aged eighteenmonths and four days old on accounts of not being expected to livesuch was the sufferings gentlemen of that child in his gums) as theplaintive--so Mrs. Piper insists on calling the deceased--wasreported to have sold himself. Thinks it was the plaintive's air inwhich that report originatinin. See the plaintive often andconsidered as his air was feariocious and not to be allowed to goabout some children being timid (and if doubted hoping Mrs. Perkinsmay be brought forard for she is here and will do credit to herhusband and herself and family). Has seen the plaintive wexed andworrited by the children (for children they will ever be and youcannot expect them specially if of playful dispositions to beMethoozellers which you was not yourself). On accounts of this andhis dark looks has often dreamed as she see him take a pick-axe fromhis pocket and split Johnny's head (which the child knows not fearand has repeatually called after him close at his eels). Neverhowever see the plaintive take a pick-axe or any other wepping farfrom it. Has seen him hurry away when run and called after as if notpartial to children and never see him speak to neither child norgrown person at any time (excepting the boy that sweeps the crossingdown the lane over the way round the corner which if he was herewould tell you that he has been seen a-speaking to him frequent).
Says the coroner, is that boy here? Says the beadle, no, sir, he isnot here. Says the coroner, go and fetch him then. In the absence ofthe active and intelligent, the coroner converses with Mr.Tulkinghorn.
Oh! Here's the boy, gentlemen!
Here he is, very muddy, very hoarse, very ragged. Now, boy! But stopa minute. Caution. This boy must be put through a few preliminarypaces.
Name, Jo. Nothing else that he knows on. Don't know that everybodyhas two names. Never heerd of sich a think. Don't know that Jo isshort for a longer name. Thinks it long enough for HIM. HE don't findno fault with it. Spell it? No. HE can't spell it. No father, nomother, no friends. Never been to school. What's home? Knows abroom's a broom, and knows it's wicked to tell a lie. Don't recollectwho told him about the broom or about the lie, but knows both. Can'texactly say what'll be done to him arter he's dead if he tells a lieto the gentlemen here, but believes it'll be something wery bad topunish him, and serve him right--and so he'll tell the truth.
"This won't do, gentlemen!" says the coroner with a melancholy shakeof the head.
"Don't you think you can receive his evidence, sir?" asks anattentive juryman.
"Out of the question," says the coroner. "You have heard the boy.'Can't exactly say' won't do, you know. We can't take THAT in a courtof justice, gentlemen. It's terrible depravity. Put the boy aside."
Boy put aside, to the great edification of the audience, especiallyof Little Swills, the comic vocalist.
Now. Is there any other witness? No other witness.
Very well, gentlemen! Here's a man unknown, proved to have been inthe habit of taking opium in large quantities for a year and a half,found dead of too much opium. If you think you have any evidence tolead you to the conclusion that he committed suicide, you will cometo that conclusion. If you think it is a case of accidental death,you will find a verdict accordingly.
Verdict accordingly. Accidental death. No doubt. Gentlemen, you aredischarged. Good afternoon.
While the coroner buttons his great-coat, Mr. Tulkinghorn and he giveprivate audience to the rejected witness in a corner.
That graceless creature only knows that the dead man (whom herecognized just now by his yellow face and black hair) was sometimeshooted and pursued about the streets. That one cold winter night whenhe, the boy, was shivering in a doorway near his crossing, the manturned to look at him, and came back, and having questioned him andfound that he had not a friend in the world, said, "Neither have I.Not one!" and gave him the price of a supper and a night's lodging.That the man had often spoken to him since and asked him whether heslept sound at night, and how he bore cold and hunger, and whether heever wished to die, and similar strange questions. That when the manhad no money, he would say in passing, "I am as poor as you to-day,Jo," but that when he had any, he had always (as the boy mostheartily believes) been glad to give him some.
"He was wery good to me," says the boy, wiping his eyes with hiswretched sleeve. "Wen I see him a-layin' so stritched out just now, Iwished he could have heerd me tell him so. He wos wery good to me, hewos!"
As he shuffles downstairs, Mr. Snagsby, lying in wait for him, puts ahalf-crown in his hand. "If you ever see me coming past your crossingwith my little woman--I mean a lady--" says Mr. Snagsby with hisfinger on his nose, "don't allude to it!"
For some little time the jurymen hang about the Sol's Armscolloquially. In the sequel, half-a-dozen are caught up in a cloud ofpipe-smoke that pervades the parlour of the Sol's Arms; two stroll toHampstead; and four engage to go half-price to the play at night, andtop up with oysters. Little Swills is treated on several hands. Beingasked what he thinks of the proceedings, characterizes them (hisstrength lying in a slangular direction) as "a rummy start." Thelandlord of the Sol's Arms, finding Little Swills so popular,commends him highly to the jurymen and public, observing that for asong in character he don't know his equal and that that man'scharacter-wardrobe would fill a cart.
Thus, gradually the Sol's Arms melts into the shadowy night and thenflares out of it strong in gas. The Harmonic Meeting hour arriving,the gentleman of professional celebrity takes the chair, is faced(red-faced) by Little Swills; their friends rally round them andsupport first-rate talent. In the zenith of the evening, LittleSwills says, "Gentlemen, if you'll permit me, I'll attempt a shortdescription of a scene of real life that came off here to-day." Ismuch applauded and encouraged; goes out of the room as Swills; comesin as the coroner (not the least in the world like him); describesthe inquest, with recreative intervals of piano-forte accompaniment,to the refrain: With his (the coroner's) tippy tol li doll, tippy tollo doll, tippy tol li doll, Dee!
The jingling piano at last is silent, and the Harmonic friends rallyround their pillows. Then there is rest around the lonely figure, nowlaid in its last earthly habitation; and it is watched by the gaunteyes in the shutters through some quiet hours of night. If thisforlorn man could have been prophetically seen lying here by themother at whose breast he nestled, a little child, with eyes upraisedto her loving face, and soft hand scarcely knowing how to close uponthe neck to which it crept, what an impossibility the vision wouldhave seemed! Oh, if in brighter days the now-extinguished fire withinhim ever burned for one woman who held him in her heart, where isshe, while these ashes are above the ground!
It is anything but a night of rest at Mr. Snagsby's, in Cook's Court,where Guster murders sleep by going, as Mr. Snagsby himselfallows--not to put too fine a point upon it--out of one fit intotwenty. The occasion of this seizure is that Guster has a tenderheart and a susceptible something that possibly might have beenimagination, but for Tooting and her patron saint. Be it what it may,now, it was so direfully impressed at tea-time by Mr. Snagsby'saccount of the inquiry at which he had assisted that at supper-timeshe projected herself into the kitchen, preceded by a flying Dutchcheese, and fell into a fit of unusual duration, which she only cameout of to go into another, and another, and so on through a chain offits, with short intervals between, of which she has patheticallyavailed herself by consuming them in entreaties to Mrs. Snagsby notto give her warning "when she quite comes to," and also in appeals tothe whole establishment to lay her down on the stones and go to bed.Hence, Mr. Snagsby, at last hearing the cock at the little dairy inCursitor Street go into that disinterested ecstasy of his on thesubject of daylight, says, drawing a long breath, though the mostpatient of men, "I thought you was dead, I am sure!"
What question this enthusiastic fowl supposes he settles when hestrains himself to such an extent, or why he should thus crow (so mencrow on various triumphant public occasions, however) about whatcannot be of any moment to him, is his affair. It is enough thatdaylight comes, morning comes, noon comes.
Then the active and intelligent, who has got into the morning papersas such, comes with his pauper company to Mr. Krook's and bears offthe body of our dear brother here departed to a hemmed-in churchyard,pestiferous and obscene, whence malignant diseases are communicatedto the bodies of our dear brothers and sisters who have not departed,while our dear brothers and sisters who hang about officialback-stairs--would to heaven they HAD departed!--are very complacentand agreeable. Into a beastly scrap of ground which a Turk wouldreject as a savage abomination and a Caffre would shudder at, theybring our dear brother here departed to receive Christian burial.
With houses looking on, on every side, save where a reeking littletunnel of a court gives access to the iron gate--with every villainyof life in action close on death, and every poisonous element ofdeath in action close on life--here they lower our dear brother downa foot or two, here sow him in corruption, to be raised incorruption: an avenging ghost at many a sick-bedside, a shamefultestimony to future ages how civilization and barbarism walked thisboastful island together.
Come night, come darkness, for you cannot come too soon or stay toolong by such a place as this! Come, straggling lights into thewindows of the ugly houses; and you who do iniquity therein, do it atleast with this dread scene shut out! Come, flame of gas, burning sosullenly above the iron gate, on which the poisoned air deposits itswitch-ointment slimy to the touch! It is well that you should call toevery passerby, "Look here!"
With the night comes a slouching figure through the tunnel-court tothe outside of the iron gate. It holds the gate with its hands andlooks in between the bars, stands looking in for a little while.
It then, with an old broom it carries, softly sweeps the step andmakes the archway clean. It does so very busily and trimly, looks inagain a little while, and so departs.
Jo, is it thou? Well, well! Though a rejected witness, who "can'texactly say" what will be done to him in greater hands than men's,thou art not quite in outer darkness. There is something like adistant ray of light in thy muttered reason for this: "He wos werygood to me, he wos!"



CHAPTER XII
On the Watch

It has left off raining down in Lincolnshire at last, and ChesneyWold has taken heart. Mrs. Rouncewell is full of hospitable cares,for Sir Leicester and my Lady are coming home from Paris. Thefashionable intelligence has found it out and communicates the gladtidings to benighted England. It has also found out that they willentertain a brilliant and distinguished circle of the ELITE of theBEAU MONDE (the fashionable intelligence is weak in English, but agiant refreshed in French) at the ancient and hospitable family seatin Lincolnshire.
For the greater honour of the brilliant and distinguished circle, andof Chesney Wold into the bargain, the broken arch of the bridge inthe park is mended; and the water, now retired within its properlimits and again spanned gracefully, makes a figure in the prospectfrom the house. The clear, cold sunshine glances into the brittlewoods and approvingly beholds the sharp wind scattering the leavesand drying the moss. It glides over the park after the moving shadowsof the clouds, and chases them, and never catches them, all day. Itlooks in at the windows and touches the ancestral portraits with barsand patches of brightness never contemplated by the painters. Athwartthe picture of my Lady, over the great chimney-piece, it throws abroad bend-sinister of light that strikes down crookedly into thehearth and seems to rend it.
Through the same cold sunshine and the same sharp wind, my Lady andSir Leicester, in their travelling chariot (my Lady's woman and SirLeicester's man affectionate in the rumble), start for home. With aconsiderable amount of jingling and whip-cracking, and many plungingdemonstrations on the part of two bare-backed horses and two centaurswith glazed hats, jack-boots, and flowing manes and tails, theyrattle out of the yard of the Hotel Bristol in the Place Vendome andcanter between the sun-and-shadow-chequered colonnade of the Rue deRivoli and the garden of the ill-fated palace of a headless king andqueen, off by the Place of Concord, and the Elysian Fields, and theGate of the Star, out of Paris.
Sooth to say, they cannot go away too fast, for even here my LadyDedlock has been bored to death. Concert, assembly, opera, theatre,drive, nothing is new to my Lady under the worn-out heavens. Onlylast Sunday, when poor wretches were gay--within the walls playingwith children among the clipped trees and the statues in the PalaceGarden; walking, a score abreast, in the Elysian Fields, made moreElysian by performing dogs and wooden horses; between whilesfiltering (a few) through the gloomy Cathedral of Our Lady to say aword or two at the base of a pillar within flare of a rusty littlegridiron-full of gusty little tapers; without the walls encompassingParis with dancing, love-making, wine-drinking, tobacco-smoking,tomb-visiting, billiard card and domino playing, quack-doctoring, andmuch murderous refuse, animate and inanimate--only last Sunday, myLady, in the desolation of Boredom and the clutch of Giant Despair,almost hated her own maid for being in spirits.
She cannot, therefore, go too fast from Paris. Weariness of soul liesbefore her, as it lies behind--her Ariel has put a girdle of it roundthe whole earth, and it cannot be unclasped--but the imperfect remedyis always to fly from the last place where it has been experienced.Fling Paris back into the distance, then, exchanging it for endlessavenues and cross-avenues of wintry trees! And, when next beheld, letit be some leagues away, with the Gate of the Star a white speckglittering in the sun, and the city a mere mound in a plain--two darksquare towers rising out of it, and light and shadow descending on itaslant, like the angels in Jacob's dream!
Sir Leicester is generally in a complacent state, and rarely bored.When he has nothing else to do, he can always contemplate his owngreatness. It is a considerable advantage to a man to have soinexhaustible a subject. After reading his letters, he leans back inhis corner of the carriage and generally reviews his importance tosociety.
"You have an unusual amount of correspondence this morning?" says myLady after a long time. She is fatigued with reading. Has almost reada page in twenty miles.
"Nothing in it, though. Nothing whatever."
"I saw one of Mr. Tulkinghorn's long effusions, I think?"
"You see everything," says Sir Leicester with admiration.
"Ha!" sighs my Lady. "He is the most tiresome of men!"
"He sends--I really beg your pardon--he sends," says Sir Leicester,selecting the letter and unfolding it, "a message to you. Ourstopping to change horses as I came to his postscript drove it out ofmy memory. I beg you'll excuse me. He says--" Sir Leicester is solong in taking out his eye-glass and adjusting it that my Lady looksa little irritated. "He says 'In the matter of the right of way--' Ibeg your pardon, that's not the place. He says--yes! Here I have it!He says, 'I beg my respectful compliments to my Lady, who, I hope,has benefited by the change. Will you do me the favour to mention (asit may interest her) that I have something to tell her on her returnin reference to the person who copied the affidavit in the Chancerysuit, which so powerfully stimulated her curiosity. I have seenhim.'"
My Lady, leaning forward, looks out of her window.
"That's the message," observes Sir Leicester.
"I should like to walk a little," says my Lady, still looking out ofher window.
"Walk?" repeats Sir Leicester in a tone of surprise.
"I should like to walk a little," says my Lady with unmistakabledistinctness. "Please to stop the carriage."
The carriage is stopped, the affectionate man alights from therumble, opens the door, and lets down the steps, obedient to animpatient motion of my Lady's hand. My Lady alights so quickly andwalks away so quickly that Sir Leicester, for all his scrupulouspoliteness, is unable to assist her, and is left behind. A space of aminute or two has elapsed before he comes up with her. She smiles,looks very handsome, takes his arm, lounges with him for a quarter ofa mile, is very much bored, and resumes her seat in the carriage.
The rattle and clatter continue through the greater part of threedays, with more or less of bell-jingling and whip-cracking, and moreor less plunging of centaurs and bare-backed horses. Their courtlypoliteness to each other at the hotels where they tarry is the themeof general admiration. Though my Lord IS a little aged for my Lady,says Madame, the hostess of the Golden Ape, and though he might beher amiable father, one can see at a glance that they love eachother. One observes my Lord with his white hair, standing, hat inhand, to help my Lady to and from the carriage. One observes my Lady,how recognisant of my Lord's politeness, with an inclination of hergracious head and the concession of her so-genteel fingers! It isravishing!
The sea has no appreciation of great men, but knocks them about likethe small fry. It is habitually hard upon Sir Leicester, whosecountenance it greenly mottles in the manner of sage-cheese and inwhose aristocratic system it effects a dismal revolution. It is theRadical of Nature to him. Nevertheless, his dignity gets over itafter stopping to refit, and he goes on with my Lady for ChesneyWold, lying only one night in London on the way to Lincolnshire.
Through the same cold sunlight, colder as the day declines, andthrough the same sharp wind, sharper as the separate shadows of baretrees gloom together in the woods, and as the Ghost's Walk, touchedat the western corner by a pile of fire in the sky, resigns itself tocoming night, they drive into the park. The rooks, swinging in theirlofty houses in the elm-tree avenue, seem to discuss the question ofthe occupancy of the carriage as it passes underneath, some agreeingthat Sir Leicester and my Lady are come down, some arguing withmalcontents who won't admit it, now all consenting to consider thequestion disposed of, now all breaking out again in violent debate,incited by one obstinate and drowsy bird who will persist in puttingin a last contradictory croak. Leaving them to swing and caw, thetravelling chariot rolls on to the house, where fires gleam warmlythrough some of the windows, though not through so many as to give aninhabited expression to the darkening mass of front. But thebrilliant and distinguished circle will soon do that.
Mrs. Rouncewell is in attendance and receives Sir Leicester'scustomary shake of the hand with a profound curtsy.
"How do you do, Mrs. Rouncewell? I am glad to see you."
"I hope I have the honour of welcoming you in good health, SirLeicester?"
"In excellent health, Mrs. Rouncewell."
"My Lady is looking charmingly well," says Mrs. Rouncewell withanother curtsy.
My Lady signifies, without profuse expenditure of words, that she isas wearily well as she can hope to be.
But Rosa is in the distance, behind the housekeeper; and my Lady, whohas not subdued the quickness of her observation, whatever else shemay have conquered, asks, "Who is that girl?"
"A young scholar of mine, my Lady. Rosa."
"Come here, Rosa!" Lady Dedlock beckons her, with even an appearanceof interest. "Why, do you know how pretty you are, child?" she says,touching her shoulder with her two forefingers.
Rosa, very much abashed, says, "No, if you please, my Lady!" andglances up, and glances down, and don't know where to look, but looksall the prettier.
"How old are you?"
"Nineteen, my Lady."
"Nineteen," repeats my Lady thoughtfully. "Take care they don't spoilyou by flattery."
"Yes, my Lady."
My Lady taps her dimpled cheek with the same delicate gloved fingersand goes on to the foot of the oak staircase, where Sir Leicesterpauses for her as her knightly escort. A staring old Dedlock in apanel, as large as life and as dull, looks as if he didn't know whatto make of it, which was probably his general state of mind in thedays of Queen Elizabeth.
That evening, in the housekeeper's room, Rosa can do nothing butmurmur Lady Dedlock's praises. She is so affable, so graceful, sobeautiful, so elegant; has such a sweet voice and such a thrillingtouch that Rosa can feel it yet! Mrs. Rouncewell confirms all this,not without personal pride, reserving only the one point ofaffability. Mrs. Rouncewell is not quite sure as to that. Heavenforbid that she should say a syllable in dispraise of any member ofthat excellent family, above all, of my Lady, whom the whole worldadmires; but if my Lady would only be "a little more free," not quiteso cold and distant, Mrs. Rouncewell thinks she would be moreaffable.
"'Tis almost a pity," Mrs. Rouncewell adds--only "almost" because itborders on impiety to suppose that anything could be better than itis, in such an express dispensation as the Dedlock affairs--"that myLady has no family. If she had had a daughter now, a grown younglady, to interest her, I think she would have had the only kind ofexcellence she wants."
"Might not that have made her still more proud, grandmother?" saysWatt, who has been home and come back again, he is such a goodgrandson.
"More and most, my dear," returns the housekeeper with dignity, "arewords it's not my place to use--nor so much as to hear--applied toany drawback on my Lady."
"I beg your pardon, grandmother. But she is proud, is she not?"
"If she is, she has reason to be. The Dedlock family have alwaysreason to be."
"Well," says Watt, "it's to be hoped they line out of theirprayer-books a certain passage for the common people about pride andvainglory. Forgive me, grandmother! Only a joke!"
"Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, my dear, are not fit subjects forjoking."
"Sir Leicester is no joke by any means," says Watt, "and I humbly askhis pardon. I suppose, grandmother, that even with the family andtheir guests down here, there is no objection to my prolonging mystay at the Dedlock Arms for a day or two, as any other travellermight?"
"Surely, none in the world, child."
"I am glad of that," says Watt, "because I have an inexpressibledesire to extend my knowledge of this beautiful neighbourhood."
He happens to glance at Rosa, who looks down and is very shy indeed.But according to the old superstition, it should be Rosa's ears thatburn, and not her fresh bright cheeks, for my Lady's maid is holdingforth about her at this moment with surpassing energy.
My Lady's maid is a Frenchwoman of two and thirty, from somewhere inthe southern country about Avignon and Marseilles, a large-eyed brownwoman with black hair who would be handsome but for a certain felinemouth and general uncomfortable tightness of face, rendering the jawstoo eager and the skull too prominent. There is something indefinablykeen and wan about her anatomy, and she has a watchful way of lookingout of the corners of her eyes without turning her head which couldbe pleasantly dispensed with, especially when she is in an ill humourand near knives. Through all the good taste of her dress and littleadornments, these objections so express themselves that she seems togo about like a very neat she-wolf imperfectly tamed. Besides beingaccomplished in all the knowledge appertaining to her post, she isalmost an Englishwoman in her acquaintance with the language;consequently, she is in no want of words to shower upon Rosa forhaving attracted my Lady's attention, and she pours them out withsuch grim ridicule as she sits at dinner that her companion, theaffectionate man, is rather relieved when she arrives at the spoonstage of that performance.
Ha, ha, ha! She, Hortense, been in my Lady's service since five yearsand always kept at the distance, and this doll, this puppet,caressed--absolutely caressed--by my Lady on the moment of herarriving at the house! Ha, ha, ha! "And do you know how pretty youare, child?" "No, my Lady." You are right there! "And how old areyou, child! And take care they do not spoil you by flattery, child!"Oh, how droll! It is the BEST thing altogether.
In short, it is such an admirable thing that Mademoiselle Hortensecan't forget it; but at meals for days afterwards, even among hercountrywomen and others attached in like capacity to the troop ofvisitors, relapses into silent enjoyment of the joke--an enjoymentexpressed, in her own convivial manner, by an additional tightness offace, thin elongation of compressed lips, and sidewise look, whichintense appreciation of humour is frequently reflected in my Lady'smirrors when my Lady is not among them.
All the mirrors in the house are brought into action now, many ofthem after a long blank. They reflect handsome faces, simperingfaces, youthful faces, faces of threescore and ten that will notsubmit to be old; the entire collection of faces that have come topass a January week or two at Chesney Wold, and which the fashionableintelligence, a mighty hunter before the Lord, hunts with a keenscent, from their breaking cover at the Court of St. James's to theirbeing run down to death. The place in Lincolnshire is all alive. Byday guns and voices are heard ringing in the woods, horsemen andcarriages enliven the park roads, servants and hangers-on pervade thevillage and the Dedlock Arms. Seen by night from distant openings inthe trees, the row of windows in the long drawing-room, where myLady's picture hangs over the great chimney-piece, is like a row ofjewels set in a black frame. On Sunday the chill little church isalmost warmed by so much gallant company, and the general flavour ofthe Dedlock dust is quenched in delicate perfumes.
The brilliant and distinguished circle comprehends within it nocontracted amount of education, sense, courage, honour, beauty, andvirtue. Yet there is something a little wrong about it in despite ofits immense advantages. What can it be?
Dandyism? There is no King George the Fourth now (more the pity) toset the dandy fashion; there are no clear-starched jack-towelneckcloths, no short-waisted coats, no false calves, no stays. Thereare no caricatures, now, of effeminate exquisites so arrayed,swooning in opera boxes with excess of delight and being revived byother dainty creatures poking long-necked scent-bottles at theirnoses. There is no beau whom it takes four men at once to shake intohis buckskins, or who goes to see all the executions, or who istroubled with the self-reproach of having once consumed a pea. But isthere dandyism in the brilliant and distinguished circlenotwithstanding, dandyism of a more mischievous sort, that has gotbelow the surface and is doing less harmless things thanjack-towelling itself and stopping its own digestion, to which norational person need particularly object?
Why, yes. It cannot be disguised. There ARE at Chesney Wold thisJanuary week some ladies and gentlemen of the newest fashion, whohave set up a dandyism--in religion, for instance. Who in merelackadaisical want of an emotion have agreed upon a little dandy talkabout the vulgar wanting faith in things in general, meaning in thethings that have been tried and found wanting, as though a low fellowshould unaccountably lose faith in a bad shilling after finding itout! Who would make the vulgar very picturesque and faithful byputting back the hands upon the clock of time and cancelling a fewhundred years of history.
There are also ladies and gentlemen of another fashion, not so new,but very elegant, who have agreed to put a smooth glaze on the worldand to keep down all its realities. For whom everything must belanguid and pretty. Who have found out the perpetual stoppage. Whoare to rejoice at nothing and be sorry for nothing. Who are not to bedisturbed by ideas. On whom even the fine arts, attending in powderand walking backward like the Lord Chamberlain, must array themselvesin the milliners' and tailors' patterns of past generations and beparticularly careful not to be in earnest or to receive any impressfrom the moving age.
Then there is my Lord Boodle, of considerable reputation with hisparty, who has known what office is and who tells Sir LeicesterDedlock with much gravity, after dinner, that he really does not seeto what the present age is tending. A debate is not what a debateused to be; the House is not what the House used to be; even aCabinet is not what it formerly was. He perceives with astonishmentthat supposing the present government to be overthrown, the limitedchoice of the Crown, in the formation of a new ministry, would liebetween Lord Coodle and Sir Thomas Doodle--supposing it to beimpossible for the Duke of Foodle to act with Goodle, which may beassumed to be the case in consequence of the breach arising out ofthat affair with Hoodle. Then, giving the Home Department and theleadership of the House of Commons to Joodle, the Exchequer toKoodle, the Colonies to Loodle, and the Foreign Office to Moodle,what are you to do with Noodle? You can't offer him the Presidency ofthe Council; that is reserved for Poodle. You can't put him in theWoods and Forests; that is hardly good enough for Quoodle. Whatfollows? That the country is shipwrecked, lost, and gone to pieces(as is made manifest to the patriotism of Sir Leicester Dedlock)because you can't provide for Noodle!
On the other hand, the Right Honourable William Buffy, M.P., contendsacross the table with some one else that the shipwreck of thecountry--about which there is no doubt; it is only the manner of itthat is in question--is attributable to Cuffy. If you had done withCuffy what you ought to have done when he first came into Parliament,and had prevented him from going over to Duffy, you would have gothim into alliance with Fuffy, you would have had with you the weightattaching as a smart debater to Guffy, you would have brought to bearupon the elections the wealth of Huffy, you would have got in forthree counties Juffy, Kuffy, and Luffy, and you would havestrengthened your administration by the official knowledge and thebusiness habits of Muffy. All this, instead of being as you now are,dependent on the mere caprice of Puffy!
As to this point, and as to some minor topics, there are differencesof opinion; but it is perfectly clear to the brilliant anddistinguished circle, all round, that nobody is in question butBoodle and his retinue, and Buffy and HIS retinue. These are thegreat actors for whom the stage is reserved. A People there are, nodoubt--a certain large number of supernumeraries, who are to beoccasionally addressed, and relied upon for shouts and choruses, ason the theatrical stage; but Boodle and Buffy, their followers andfamilies, their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, arethe born first-actors, managers, and leaders, and no others canappear upon the scene for ever and ever.
In this, too, there is perhaps more dandyism at Chesney Wold than thebrilliant and distinguished circle will find good for itself in thelong run. For it is, even with the stillest and politest circles, aswith the circle the necromancer draws around him--very strangeappearances may be seen in active motion outside. With thisdifference, that being realities and not phantoms, there is thegreater danger of their breaking in.
Chesney Wold is quite full anyhow, so full that a burning sense ofinjury arises in the breasts of ill-lodged ladies'-maids, and is notto be extinguished. Only one room is empty. It is a turret chamber ofthe third order of merit, plainly but comfortably furnished andhaving an old-fashioned business air. It is Mr. Tulkinghorn's room,and is never bestowed on anybody else, for he may come at any time.He is not come yet. It is his quiet habit to walk across the parkfrom the village in fine weather, to drop into this room as if he hadnever been out of it since he was last seen there, to request aservant to inform Sir Leicester that he is arrived in case he shouldbe wanted, and to appear ten minutes before dinner in the shadow ofthe library-door. He sleeps in his turret with a complainingflag-staff over his head, and has some leads outside on which, anyfine morning when he is down here, his black figure may be seenwalking before breakfast like a larger species of rook.
Every day before dinner, my Lady looks for him in the dusk of thelibrary, but he is not there. Every day at dinner, my Lady glancesdown the table for the vacant place that would be waiting to receivehim if he had just arrived, but there is no vacant place. Every nightmy Lady casually asks her maid, "Is Mr. Tulkinghorn come?"
Every night the answer is, "No, my Lady, not yet."
One night, while having her hair undressed, my Lady loses herself indeep thought after this reply until she sees her own brooding face inthe opposite glass, and a pair of black eyes curiously observing her.
"Be so good as to attend," says my Lady then, addressing thereflection of Hortense, "to your business. You can contemplate yourbeauty at another time."
"Pardon! It was your Ladyship's beauty."
"That," says my Lady, "you needn't contemplate at all."
At length, one afternoon a little before sunset, when the brightgroups of figures which have for the last hour or two enlivened theGhost's Walk are all dispersed and only Sir Leicester and my Ladyremain upon the terrace, Mr. Tulkinghorn appears. He comes towardsthem at his usual methodical pace, which is never quickened, neverslackened. He wears his usual expressionless mask--if it be amask--and carries family secrets in every limb of his body and everycrease of his dress. Whether his whole soul is devoted to the greator whether he yields them nothing beyond the services he sells is hispersonal secret. He keeps it, as he keeps the secrets of his clients;he is his own client in that matter, and will never betray himself.
"How do you do, Mr. Tulkinghorn?" says Sir Leicester, giving him hishand.
Mr. Tulkinghorn is quite well. Sir Leicester is quite well. My Ladyis quite well. All highly satisfactory. The lawyer, with his handsbehind him, walks at Sir Leicester's side along the terrace. My Ladywalks upon the other side.
"We expected you before," says Sir Leicester. A gracious observation.As much as to say, "Mr. Tulkinghorn, we remember your existence whenyou are not here to remind us of it by your presence. We bestow afragment of our minds upon you, sir, you see!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn, comprehending it, inclines his head and says he ismuch obliged.
"I should have come down sooner," he explains, "but that I have beenmuch engaged with those matters in the several suits between yourselfand Boythorn."
"A man of a very ill-regulated mind," observes Sir Leicester withseverity. "An extremely dangerous person in any community. A man of avery low character of mind."
"He is obstinate," says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
"It is natural to such a man to be so," says Sir Leicester, lookingmost profoundly obstinate himself. "I am not at all surprised to hearit."
"The only question is," pursues the lawyer, "whether you will give upanything."
"No, sir," replies Sir Leicester. "Nothing. I give up?"
"I don't mean anything of importance. That, of course, I know youwould not abandon. I mean any minor point."
"Mr. Tulkinghorn," returns Sir Leicester, "there can be no minorpoint between myself and Mr. Boythorn. If I go farther, and observethat I cannot readily conceive how ANY right of mine can be a minorpoint, I speak not so much in reference to myself as an individual asin reference to the family position I have it in charge to maintain."
Mr. Tulkinghorn inclines his head again. "I have now myinstructions," he says. "Mr. Boythorn will give us a good deal oftrouble--"
"It is the character of such a mind, Mr. Tulkinghorn," Sir Leicesterinterrupts him, "TO give trouble. An exceedingly ill-conditioned,levelling person. A person who, fifty years ago, would probably havebeen tried at the Old Bailey for some demagogue proceeding, andseverely punished--if not," adds Sir Leicester after a moment'spause, "if not hanged, drawn, and quartered."
Sir Leicester appears to discharge his stately breast of a burden inpassing this capital sentence, as if it were the next satisfactorything to having the sentence executed.
"But night is coming on," says he, "and my Lady will take cold. Mydear, let us go in."
As they turn towards the hall-door, Lady Dedlock addresses Mr.Tulkinghorn for the first time.
"You sent me a message respecting the person whose writing I happenedto inquire about. It was like you to remember the circumstance; I hadquite forgotten it. Your message reminded me of it again. I can'timagine what association I had with a hand like that, but I surelyhad some."
"You had some?" Mr. Tulkinghorn repeats.
"Oh, yes!" returns my Lady carelessly. "I think I must have had some.And did you really take the trouble to find out the writer of thatactual thing--what is it!--affidavit?"
"Yes."
"How very odd!"
They pass into a sombre breakfast-room on the ground floor, lightedin the day by two deep windows. It is now twilight. The fire glowsbrightly on the panelled wall and palely on the window-glass, where,through the cold reflection of the blaze, the colder landscapeshudders in the wind and a grey mist creeps along, the only travellerbesides the waste of clouds.
My Lady lounges in a great chair in the chimney-corner, and SirLeicester takes another great chair opposite. The lawyer standsbefore the fire with his hand out at arm's length, shading his face.He looks across his arm at my Lady.
"Yes," he says, "I inquired about the man, and found him. And, whatis very strange, I found him--"
"Not to be any out-of-the-way person, I am afraid!" Lady Dedlocklanguidly anticipates.
"I found him dead."
"Oh, dear me!" remonstrated Sir Leicester. Not so much shocked by thefact as by the fact of the fact being mentioned.
"I was directed to his lodging--a miserable, poverty-strickenplace--and I found him dead."
"You will excuse me, Mr. Tulkinghorn," observes Sir Leicester. "Ithink the less said--"
"Pray, Sir Leicester, let me hear the story out" (it is my Ladyspeaking). "It is quite a story for twilight. How very shocking!Dead?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn re-asserts it by another inclination of his head."Whether by his own hand--"
"Upon my honour!" cries Sir Leicester. "Really!"
"Do let me hear the story!" says my Lady.
"Whatever you desire, my dear. But, I must say--"
"No, you mustn't say! Go on, Mr. Tulkinghorn."
Sir Leicester's gallantry concedes the point, though he still feelsthat to bring this sort of squalor among the upper classes isreally--really--
"I was about to say," resumes the lawyer with undisturbed calmness,"that whether he had died by his own hand or not, it was beyond mypower to tell you. I should amend that phrase, however, by sayingthat he had unquestionably died of his own act, though whether by hisown deliberate intention or by mischance can never certainly beknown. The coroner's jury found that he took the poisonaccidentally."
"And what kind of man," my Lady asks, "was this deplorable creature?"
"Very difficult to say," returns the lawyer, shaking his head. "Hehad lived so wretchedly and was so neglected, with his gipsy colourand his wild black hair and beard, that I should have considered himthe commonest of the common. The surgeon had a notion that he hadonce been something better, both in appearance and condition."
"What did they call the wretched being?"
"They called him what he had called himself, but no one knew hisname."
"Not even any one who had attended on him?"
"No one had attended on him. He was found dead. In fact, I foundhim."
"Without any clue to anything more?"
"Without any; there was," says the lawyer meditatively, "an oldportmanteau, but--No, there were no papers."
During the utterance of every word of this short dialogue, LadyDedlock and Mr. Tulkinghorn, without any other alteration in theircustomary deportment, have looked very steadily at one another--aswas natural, perhaps, in the discussion of so unusual a subject. SirLeicester has looked at the fire, with the general expression of theDedlock on the staircase. The story being told, he renews his statelyprotest, saying that as it is quite clear that no association in myLady's mind can possibly be traceable to this poor wretch (unless hewas a begging-letter writer), he trusts to hear no more about asubject so far removed from my Lady's station.
"Certainly, a collection of horrors," says my Lady, gathering up hermantles and furs, "but they interest one for the moment! Have thekindness, Mr. Tulkinghorn, to open the door for me."
Mr. Tulkinghorn does so with deference and holds it open while shepasses out. She passes close to him, with her usual fatigued mannerand insolent grace. They meet again at dinner--again, nextday--again, for many days in succession. Lady Dedlock is always thesame exhausted deity, surrounded by worshippers, and terribly liableto be bored to death, even while presiding at her own shrine. Mr.Tulkinghorn is always the same speechless repository of nobleconfidences, so oddly out of place and yet so perfectly at home. Theyappear to take as little note of one another as any two peopleenclosed within the same walls could. But whether each evermorewatches and suspects the other, evermore mistrustful of some greatreservation; whether each is evermore prepared at all points for theother, and never to be taken unawares; what each would give to knowhow much the other knows--all this is hidden, for the time, in theirown hearts.



CHAPTER XIII
Esther's Narrative

We held many consultations about what Richard was to be, firstwithout Mr. Jarndyce, as he had requested, and afterwards with him,but it was a long time before we seemed to make progress. Richardsaid he was ready for anything. When Mr. Jarndyce doubted whether hemight not already be too old to enter the Navy, Richard said he hadthought of that, and perhaps he was. When Mr. Jarndyce asked him whathe thought of the Army, Richard said he had thought of that, too, andit wasn't a bad idea. When Mr. Jarndyce advised him to try and decidewithin himself whether his old preference for the sea was an ordinaryboyish inclination or a strong impulse, Richard answered, Well hereally HAD tried very often, and he couldn't make out.
"How much of this indecision of character," Mr. Jarndyce said to me,"is chargeable on that incomprehensible heap of uncertainty andprocrastination on which he has been thrown from his birth, I don'tpretend to say; but that Chancery, among its other sins, isresponsible for some of it, I can plainly see. It has engendered orconfirmed in him a habit of putting off--and trusting to this, that,and the other chance, without knowing what chance--and dismissingeverything as unsettled, uncertain, and confused. The character ofmuch older and steadier people may be even changed by thecircumstances surrounding them. It would be too much to expect that aboy's, in its formation, should be the subject of such influences andescape them."
I felt this to be true; though if I may venture to mention what Ithought besides, I thought it much to be regretted that Richard'seducation had not counteracted those influences or directed hischaracter. He had been eight years at a public school and had learnt,I understood, to make Latin verses of several sorts in the mostadmirable manner. But I never heard that it had been anybody'sbusiness to find out what his natural bent was, or where his failingslay, or to adapt any kind of knowledge to HIM. HE had been adapted tothe verses and had learnt the art of making them to such perfectionthat if he had remained at school until he was of age, I suppose hecould only have gone on making them over and over again unless he hadenlarged his education by forgetting how to do it. Still, although Ihad no doubt that they were very beautiful, and very improving, andvery sufficient for a great many purposes of life, and alwaysremembered all through life, I did doubt whether Richard would nothave profited by some one studying him a little, instead of hisstudying them quite so much.
To be sure, I knew nothing of the subject and do not even now knowwhether the young gentlemen of classic Rome or Greece made verses tothe same extent--or whether the young gentlemen of any country everdid.
"I haven't the least idea," said Richard, musing, "what I had betterbe. Except that I am quite sure I don't want to go into the Church,it's a toss-up."
"You have no inclination in Mr. Kenge's way?" suggested Mr. Jarndyce.
"I don't know that, sir!" replied Richard. "I am fond of boating.Articled clerks go a good deal on the water. It's a capitalprofession!"
"Surgeon--" suggested Mr. Jarndyce.
"That's the thing, sir!" cried Richard.
I doubt if he had ever once thought of it before.
"That's the thing, sir," repeated Richard with the greatestenthusiasm. "We have got it at last. M.R.C.S.!"
He was not to be laughed out of it, though he laughed at it heartily.He said he had chosen his profession, and the more he thought of it,the more he felt that his destiny was clear; the art of healing wasthe art of all others for him. Mistrusting that he only came to thisconclusion because, having never had much chance of finding out forhimself what he was fitted for and having never been guided to thediscovery, he was taken by the newest idea and was glad to get rid ofthe trouble of consideration, I wondered whether the Latin versesoften ended in this or whether Richard's was a solitary case.
Mr. Jarndyce took great pains to talk with him seriously and to putit to his good sense not to deceive himself in so important a matter.Richard was a little grave after these interviews, but invariablytold Ada and me that it was all right, and then began to talk aboutsomething else.
"By heaven!" cried Mr. Boythorn, who interested himself strongly inthe subject--though I need not say that, for he could do nothingweakly; "I rejoice to find a young gentleman of spirit and gallantrydevoting himself to that noble profession! The more spirit there isin it, the better for mankind and the worse for those mercenarytask-masters and low tricksters who delight in putting thatillustrious art at a disadvantage in the world. By all that is baseand despicable," cried Mr. Boythorn, "the treatment of surgeonsaboard ship is such that I would submit the legs--both legs--of everymember of the Admiralty Board to a compound fracture and render it atransportable offence in any qualified practitioner to set them ifthe system were not wholly changed in eight and forty hours!"
"Wouldn't you give them a week?" asked Mr. Jarndyce.
"No!" cried Mr. Boythorn firmly. "Not on any consideration! Eight andforty hours! As to corporations, parishes, vestry-boards, and similargatherings of jolter-headed clods who assemble to exchange suchspeeches that, by heaven, they ought to be worked in quicksilvermines for the short remainder of their miserable existence, if itwere only to prevent their detestable English from contaminating alanguage spoken in the presence of the sun--as to those fellows, whomeanly take advantage of the ardour of gentlemen in the pursuit ofknowledge to recompense the inestimable services of the best years oftheir lives, their long study, and their expensive education withpittances too small for the acceptance of clerks, I would have thenecks of every one of them wrung and their skulls arranged inSurgeons' Hall for the contemplation of the whole profession in orderthat its younger members might understand from actual measurement, inearly life, HOW thick skulls may become!"
He wound up this vehement declaration by looking round upon us with amost agreeable smile and suddenly thundering, "Ha, ha, ha!" over andover again, until anybody else might have been expected to be quitesubdued by the exertion.
As Richard still continued to say that he was fixed in his choiceafter repeated periods for consideration had been recommended by Mr.Jarndyce and had expired, and he still continued to assure Ada and mein the same final manner that it was "all right," it became advisableto take Mr. Kenge into council. Mr. Kenge, therefore, came down todinner one day, and leaned back in his chair, and turned hiseye-glasses over and over, and spoke in a sonorous voice, and didexactly what I remembered to have seen him do when I was a littlegirl.
"Ah!" said Mr. Kenge. "Yes. Well! A very good profession, Mr.Jarndyce, a very good profession."
"The course of study and preparation requires to be diligentlypursued," observed my guardian with a glance at Richard.
"Oh, no doubt," said Mr. Kenge. "Diligently."
"But that being the case, more or less, with all pursuits that areworth much," said Mr. Jarndyce, "it is not a special considerationwhich another choice would be likely to escape."
"Truly," said Mr. Kenge. "And Mr. Richard Carstone, who has someritoriously acquitted himself in the--shall I say the classicshades?--in which his youth had been passed, will, no doubt, applythe habits, if not the principles and practice, of versification inthat tongue in which a poet was said (unless I mistake) to be born,not made, to the more eminently practical field of action on which heenters."
"You may rely upon it," said Richard in his off-hand manner, "that Ishall go at it and do my best."
"Very well, Mr. Jarndyce!" said Mr. Kenge, gently nodding his head."Really, when we are assured by Mr. Richard that he means to go at itand to do his best," nodding feelingly and smoothly over thoseexpressions, "I would submit to you that we have only to inquire intothe best mode of carrying out the object of his ambition. Now, withreference to placing Mr. Richard with some sufficiently eminentpractitioner. Is there any one in view at present?"
"No one, Rick, I think?" said my guardian.
"No one, sir," said Richard.
"Quite so!" observed Mr. Kenge. "As to situation, now. Is there anyparticular feeling on that head?"
"N--no," said Richard.
"Quite so!" observed Mr. Kenge again.
"I should like a little variety," said Richard; "I mean a good rangeof experience."
"Very requisite, no doubt," returned Mr. Kenge. "I think this may beeasily arranged, Mr. Jarndyce? We have only, in the first place, todiscover a sufficiently eligible practitioner; and as soon as we makeour want--and shall I add, our ability to pay a premium?--known, ouronly difficulty will be in the selection of one from a large number.We have only, in the second place, to observe those littleformalities which are rendered necessary by our time of life and ourbeing under the guardianship of the court. We shall soon be--shall Isay, in Mr. Richard's own light-hearted manner, 'going at it'--to ourheart's content. It is a coincidence," said Mr. Kenge with a tinge ofmelancholy in his smile, "one of those coincidences which may or maynot require an explanation beyond our present limited faculties, thatI have a cousin in the medical profession. He might be deemedeligible by you and might be disposed to respond to this proposal. Ican answer for him as little as for you, but he MIGHT!"
As this was an opening in the prospect, it was arranged that Mr.Kenge should see his cousin. And as Mr. Jarndyce had before proposedto take us to London for a few weeks, it was settled next day that weshould make our visit at once and combine Richard's business with it.
Mr. Boythorn leaving us within a week, we took up our abode at acheerful lodging near Oxford Street over an upholsterer's shop.London was a great wonder to us, and we were out for hours and hoursat a time, seeing the sights, which appeared to be less capable ofexhaustion than we were. We made the round of the principal theatres,too, with great delight, and saw all the plays that were worthseeing. I mention this because it was at the theatre that I began tobe made uncomfortable again by Mr. Guppy.
I was sitting in front of the box one night with Ada, and Richard wasin the place he liked best, behind Ada's chair, when, happening tolook down into the pit, I saw Mr. Guppy, with his hair flattened downupon his head and woe depicted in his face, looking up at me. I feltall through the performance that he never looked at the actors butconstantly looked at me, and always with a carefully preparedexpression of the deepest misery and the profoundest dejection.
It quite spoiled my pleasure for that night because it was so veryembarrassing and so very ridiculous. But from that time forth, wenever went to the play without my seeing Mr. Guppy in the pit, alwayswith his hair straight and flat, his shirt-collar turned down, and ageneral feebleness about him. If he were not there when we went in,and I began to hope he would not come and yielded myself for a littlewhile to the interest of the scene, I was certain to encounter hislanguishing eyes when I least expected it and, from that time, to bequite sure that they were fixed upon me all the evening.
I really cannot express how uneasy this made me. If he would onlyhave brushed up his hair or turned up his collar, it would have beenbad enough; but to know that that absurd figure was always gazing atme, and always in that demonstrative state of despondency, put such aconstraint upon me that I did not like to laugh at the play, or tocry at it, or to move, or to speak. I seemed able to do nothingnaturally. As to escaping Mr. Guppy by going to the back of the box,I could not bear to do that because I knew Richard and Ada relied onhaving me next them and that they could never have talked together sohappily if anybody else had been in my place. So there I sat, notknowing where to look--for wherever I looked, I knew Mr. Guppy's eyeswere following me--and thinking of the dreadful expense to which thisyoung man was putting himself on my account.
Sometimes I thought of telling Mr. Jarndyce. Then I feared that theyoung man would lose his situation and that I might ruin him.Sometimes I thought of confiding in Richard, but was deterred by thepossibility of his fighting Mr. Guppy and giving him black eyes.Sometimes I thought, should I frown at him or shake my head. Then Ifelt I could not do it. Sometimes I considered whether I should writeto his mother, but that ended in my being convinced that to open acorrespondence would be to make the matter worse. I always came tothe conclusion, finally, that I could do nothing. Mr. Guppy'sperseverance, all this time, not only produced him regularly at anytheatre to which we went, but caused him to appear in the crowd as wewere coming out, and even to get up behind our fly--where I am sure Isaw him, two or three times, struggling among the most dreadfulspikes. After we got home, he haunted a post opposite our house. Theupholsterer's where we lodged being at the corner of two streets, andmy bedroom window being opposite the post, I was afraid to go nearthe window when I went upstairs, lest I should see him (as I did onemoonlight night) leaning against the post and evidently catchingcold. If Mr. Guppy had not been, fortunately for me, engaged in thedaytime, I really should have had no rest from him.
While we were making this round of gaieties, in which Mr. Guppy soextraordinarily participated, the business which had helped to bringus to town was not neglected. Mr. Kenge's cousin was a Mr. BayhamBadger, who had a good practice at Chelsea and attended a largepublic institution besides. He was quite willing to receive Richardinto his house and to superintend his studies, and as it seemed thatthose could be pursued advantageously under Mr. Badger's roof, andMr. Badger liked Richard, and as Richard said he liked Mr. Badger"well enough," an agreement was made, the Lord Chancellor's consentwas obtained, and it was all settled.
On the day when matters were concluded between Richard and Mr.Badger, we were all under engagement to dine at Mr. Badger's house.We were to be "merely a family party," Mrs. Badger's note said; andwe found no lady there but Mrs. Badger herself. She was surrounded inthe drawing-room by various objects, indicative of her painting alittle, playing the piano a little, playing the guitar a little,playing the harp a little, singing a little, working a little,reading a little, writing poetry a little, and botanizing a little.She was a lady of about fifty, I should think, youthfully dressed,and of a very fine complexion. If I add to the little list of heraccomplishments that she rouged a little, I do not mean that therewas any harm in it.
Mr. Bayham Badger himself was a pink, fresh-faced, crisp-lookinggentleman with a weak voice, white teeth, light hair, and surprisedeyes, some years younger, I should say, than Mrs. Bayham Badger. Headmired her exceedingly, but principally, and to begin with, on thecurious ground (as it seemed to us) of her having had three husbands.We had barely taken our seats when he said to Mr. Jarndyce quitetriumphantly, "You would hardly suppose that I am Mrs. BayhamBadger's third!"
"Indeed?" said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Her third!" said Mr. Badger. "Mrs. Bayham Badger has not theappearance, Miss Summerson, of a lady who has had two formerhusbands?"
I said "Not at all!"
"And most remarkable men!" said Mr. Badger in a tone of confidence."Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy, who was Mrs. Badger's firsthusband, was a very distinguished officer indeed. The name ofProfessor Dingo, my immediate predecessor, is one of Europeanreputation."
Mrs. Badger overheard him and smiled.
"Yes, my dear!" Mr. Badger replied to the smile, "I was observing toMr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson that you had had two formerhusbands--both very distinguished men. And they found it, as peoplegenerally do, difficult to believe."
"I was barely twenty," said Mrs. Badger, "when I married CaptainSwosser of the Royal Navy. I was in the Mediterranean with him; I amquite a sailor. On the twelfth anniversary of my wedding-day, Ibecame the wife of Professor Dingo."
"Of European reputation," added Mr. Badger in an undertone.
"And when Mr. Badger and myself were married," pursued Mrs. Badger,"we were married on the same day of the year. I had become attachedto the day."
"So that Mrs. Badger has been married to three husbands--two of themhighly distinguished men," said Mr. Badger, summing up the facts,"and each time upon the twenty-first of March at eleven in theforenoon!"
We all expressed our admiration.
"But for Mr. Badger's modesty," said Mr. Jarndyce, "I would takeleave to correct him and say three distinguished men."
"Thank you, Mr. Jarndyce! What I always tell him!" observed Mrs.Badger.
"And, my dear," said Mr. Badger, "what do I always tell you? Thatwithout any affectation of disparaging such professional distinctionas I may have attained (which our friend Mr. Carstone will have manyopportunities of estimating), I am not so weak--no, really," said Mr.Badger to us generally, "so unreasonable--as to put my reputation onthe same footing with such first-rate men as Captain Swosser andProfessor Dingo. Perhaps you may be interested, Mr. Jarndyce,"continued Mr. Bayham Badger, leading the way into the nextdrawing-room, "in this portrait of Captain Swosser. It was taken onhis return home from the African station, where he had suffered fromthe fever of the country. Mrs. Badger considers it too yellow. Butit's a very fine head. A very fine head!"
We all echoed, "A very fine head!"
"I feel when I look at it," said Mr. Badger, "'That's a man I shouldlike to have seen!' It strikingly bespeaks the first-class man thatCaptain Swosser pre-eminently was. On the other side, ProfessorDingo. I knew him well--attended him in his last illness--a speakinglikeness! Over the piano, Mrs. Bayham Badger when Mrs. Swosser. Overthe sofa, Mrs. Bayham Badger when Mrs. Dingo. Of Mrs. Bayham BadgerIN ESSE, I possess the original and have no copy."
Dinner was now announced, and we went downstairs. It was a verygenteel entertainment, very handsomely served. But the captain andthe professor still ran in Mr. Badger's head, and as Ada and I hadthe honour of being under his particular care, we had the fullbenefit of them.
"Water, Miss Summerson? Allow me! Not in that tumbler, pray. Bring methe professor's goblet, James!"
Ada very much admired some artificial flowers under a glass.
"Astonishing how they keep!" said Mr. Badger. "They were presented toMrs. Bayham Badger when she was in the Mediterranean."
He invited Mr. Jarndyce to take a glass of claret.
"Not that claret!" he said. "Excuse me! This is an occasion, and ONan occasion I produce some very special claret I happen to have.(James, Captain Swosser's wine!) Mr. Jarndyce, this is a wine thatwas imported by the captain, we will not say how many years ago. Youwill find it very curious. My dear, I shall be happy to take some ofthis wine with you. (Captain Swosser's claret to your mistress,James!) My love, your health!"
After dinner, when we ladies retired, we took Mrs. Badger's first andsecond husband with us. Mrs. Badger gave us in the drawing-room abiographical sketch of the life and services of Captain Swosserbefore his marriage and a more minute account of him dating from thetime when he fell in love with her at a ball on board the Crippler,given to the officers of that ship when she lay in Plymouth Harbour.
"The dear old Crippler!" said Mrs. Badger, shaking her head. "She wasa noble vessel. Trim, ship-shape, all a taunto, as Captain Swosserused to say. You must excuse me if I occasionally introduce anautical expression; I was quite a sailor once. Captain Swosser lovedthat craft for my sake. When she was no longer in commission, hefrequently said that if he were rich enough to buy her old hulk, hewould have an inscription let into the timbers of the quarter-deckwhere we stood as partners in the dance to mark the spot where hefell--raked fore and aft (Captain Swosser used to say) by the firefrom my tops. It was his naval way of mentioning my eyes."
Mrs. Badger shook her head, sighed, and looked in the glass.
"It was a great change from Captain Swosser to Professor Dingo," sheresumed with a plaintive smile. "I felt it a good deal at first. Suchan entire revolution in my mode of life! But custom, combined withscience--particularly science--inured me to it. Being the professor'ssole companion in his botanical excursions, I almost forgot that Ihad ever been afloat, and became quite learned. It is singular thatthe professor was the antipodes of Captain Swosser and that Mr.Badger is not in the least like either!"
We then passed into a narrative of the deaths of Captain Swosser andProfessor Dingo, both of whom seem to have had very bad complaints.In the course of it, Mrs. Badger signified to us that she had nevermadly loved but once and that the object of that wild affection,never to be recalled in its fresh enthusiasm, was Captain Swosser.The professor was yet dying by inches in the most dismal manner, andMrs. Badger was giving us imitations of his way of saying, with greatdifficulty, "Where is Laura? Let Laura give me my toast and water!"when the entrance of the gentlemen consigned him to the tomb.
Now, I observed that evening, as I had observed for some days past,that Ada and Richard were more than ever attached to each other'ssociety, which was but natural, seeing that they were going to beseparated so soon. I was therefore not very much surprised when wegot home, and Ada and I retired upstairs, to find Ada more silentthan usual, though I was not quite prepared for her coming into myarms and beginning to speak to me, with her face hidden.
"My darling Esther!" murmured Ada. "I have a great secret to tellyou!"
A mighty secret, my pretty one, no doubt!
"What is it, Ada?"
"Oh, Esther, you would never guess!"
"Shall I try to guess?" said I.
"Oh, no! Don't! Pray don't!" cried Ada, very much startled by theidea of my doing so.
"Now, I wonder who it can be about?" said I, pretending to consider.
"It's about--" said Ada in a whisper. "It's about--my cousinRichard!"
"Well, my own!" said I, kissing her bright hair, which was all Icould see. "And what about him?"
"Oh, Esther, you would never guess!"
It was so pretty to have her clinging to me in that way, hiding herface, and to know that she was not crying in sorrow but in a littleglow of joy, and pride, and hope, that I would not help her just yet.
"He says--I know it's very foolish, we are both so young--but hesays," with a burst of tears, "that he loves me dearly, Esther."
"Does he indeed?" said I. "I never heard of such a thing! Why, my petof pets, I could have told you that weeks and weeks ago!"
To see Ada lift up her flushed face in joyful surprise, and hold meround the neck, and laugh, and cry, and blush, was so pleasant!
"Why, my darling," said I, "what a goose you must take me for! Yourcousin Richard has been loving you as plainly as he could for I don'tknow how long!"
"And yet you never said a word about it!" cried Ada, kissing me.
"No, my love," said I. "I waited to be told."
"But now I have told you, you don't think it wrong of me, do you?"returned Ada. She might have coaxed me to say no if I had been thehardest-hearted duenna in the world. Not being that yet, I said novery freely.
"And now," said I, "I know the worst of it."
"Oh, that's not quite the worst of it, Esther dear!" cried Ada,holding me tighter and laying down her face again upon my breast.
"No?" said I. "Not even that?"
"No, not even that!" said Ada, shaking her head.
"Why, you never mean to say--" I was beginning in joke.
But Ada, looking up and smiling through her tears, cried, "Yes, I do!You know, you know I do!" And then sobbed out, "With all my heart Ido! With all my whole heart, Esther!"
I told her, laughing, why I had known that, too, just as well as Ihad known the other! And we sat before the fire, and I had all thetalking to myself for a little while (though there was not much ofit); and Ada was soon quiet and happy.
"Do you think my cousin John knows, dear Dame Durden?" she asked.
"Unless my cousin John is blind, my pet," said I, "I should think mycousin John knows pretty well as much as we know."
"We want to speak to him before Richard goes," said Ada timidly, "andwe wanted you to advise us, and to tell him so. Perhaps you wouldn'tmind Richard's coming in, Dame Durden?"
"Oh! Richard is outside, is he, my dear?" said I.
"I am not quite certain," returned Ada with a bashful simplicity thatwould have won my heart if she had not won it long before, "but Ithink he's waiting at the door."
There he was, of course. They brought a chair on either side of me,and put me between them, and really seemed to have fallen in lovewith me instead of one another, they were so confiding, and sotrustful, and so fond of me. They went on in their own wild way for alittle while--I never stopped them; I enjoyed it too much myself--andthen we gradually fell to considering how young they were, and howthere must be a lapse of several years before this early love couldcome to anything, and how it could come to happiness only if it werereal and lasting and inspired them with a steady resolution to dotheir duty to each other, with constancy, fortitude, andperseverance, each always for the other's sake. Well! Richard saidthat he would work his fingers to the bone for Ada, and Ada said thatshe would work her fingers to the bone for Richard, and they calledme all sorts of endearing and sensible names, and we sat there,advising and talking, half the night. Finally, before we parted, Igave them my promise to speak to their cousin John to-morrow.
So, when to-morrow came, I went to my guardian after breakfast, inthe room that was our town-substitute for the growlery, and told himthat I had it in trust to tell him something.
"Well, little woman," said he, shutting up his book, "if you haveaccepted the trust, there can be no harm in it."
"I hope not, guardian," said I. "I can guarantee that there is nosecrecy in it. For it only happened yesterday."
"Aye? And what is it, Esther?"
"Guardian," said I, "you remember the happy night when first we camedown to Bleak House? When Ada was singing in the dark room?"
I wished to call to his remembrance the look he had given me then.Unless I am much mistaken, I saw that I did so.
"Because--" said I with a little hesitation.
"Yes, my dear!" said he. "Don't hurry."
"Because," said I, "Ada and Richard have fallen in love. And havetold each other so."
"Already!" cried my guardian, quite astonished.
"Yes!" said I. "And to tell you the truth, guardian, I ratherexpected it."
"The deuce you did!" said he.
He sat considering for a minute or two, with his smile, at once sohandsome and so kind, upon his changing face, and then requested meto let them know that he wished to see them. When they came, heencircled Ada with one arm in his fatherly way and addressed himselfto Richard with a cheerful gravity.
"Rick," said Mr. Jarndyce, "I am glad to have won your confidence. Ihope to preserve it. When I contemplated these relations between usfour which have so brightened my life and so invested it with newinterests and pleasures, I certainly did contemplate, afar off, thepossibility of you and your pretty cousin here (don't be shy, Ada,don't be shy, my dear!) being in a mind to go through life together.I saw, and do see, many reasons to make it desirable. But that wasafar off, Rick, afar off!"
"We look afar off, sir," returned Richard.
"Well!" said Mr. Jarndyce. "That's rational. Now, hear me, my dears!I might tell you that you don't know your own minds yet, that athousand things may happen to divert you from one another, that it iswell this chain of flowers you have taken up is very easily broken,or it might become a chain of lead. But I will not do that. Suchwisdom will come soon enough, I dare say, if it is to come at all. Iwill assume that a few years hence you will be in your hearts to oneanother what you are to-day. All I say before speaking to youaccording to that assumption is, if you DO change--if you DO come tofind that you are more commonplace cousins to each other as man andwoman than you were as boy and girl (your manhood will excuse me,Rick!)--don't be ashamed still to confide in me, for there will benothing monstrous or uncommon in it. I am only your friend anddistant kinsman. I have no power over you whatever. But I wish andhope to retain your confidence if I do nothing to forfeit it."
"I am very sure, sir," returned Richard, "that I speak for Ada toowhen I say that you have the strongest power over us both--rooted inrespect, gratitude, and affection--strengthening every day."
"Dear cousin John," said Ada, on his shoulder, "my father's place cannever be empty again. All the love and duty I could ever haverendered to him is transferred to you."
"Come!" said Mr. Jarndyce. "Now for our assumption. Now we lift oureyes up and look hopefully at the distance! Rick, the world is beforeyou; and it is most probable that as you enter it, so it will receiveyou. Trust in nothing but in Providence and your own efforts. Neverseparate the two, like the heathen waggoner. Constancy in love is agood thing, but it means nothing, and is nothing, without constancyin every kind of effort. If you had the abilities of all the greatmen, past and present, you could do nothing well without sincerelymeaning it and setting about it. If you entertain the suppositionthat any real success, in great things or in small, ever was or couldbe, ever will or can be, wrested from Fortune by fits and starts,leave that wrong idea here or leave your cousin Ada here."
"I will leave IT here, sir," replied Richard smiling, "if I broughtit here just now (but I hope I did not), and will work my way on tomy cousin Ada in the hopeful distance."
"Right!" said Mr. Jarndyce. "If you are not to make her happy, whyshould you pursue her?"
"I wouldn't make her unhappy--no, not even for her love," retortedRichard proudly.
"Well said!" cried Mr. Jarndyce. "That's well said! She remains here,in her home with me. Love her, Rick, in your active life, no lessthan in her home when you revisit it, and all will go well.Otherwise, all will go ill. That's the end of my preaching. I thinkyou and Ada had better take a walk."
Ada tenderly embraced him, and Richard heartily shook hands with him,and then the cousins went out of the room, looking back againdirectly, though, to say that they would wait for me.
The door stood open, and we both followed them with our eyes as theypassed down the adjoining room, on which the sun was shining, and outat its farther end. Richard with his head bent, and her hand drawnthrough his arm, was talking to her very earnestly; and she looked upin his face, listening, and seemed to see nothing else. So young, sobeautiful, so full of hope and promise, they went on lightly throughthe sunlight as their own happy thoughts might then be traversing theyears to come and making them all years of brightness. So they passedaway into the shadow and were gone. It was only a burst of light thathad been so radiant. The room darkened as they went out, and the sunwas clouded over.
"Am I right, Esther?" said my guardian when they were gone.
He was so good and wise to ask ME whether he was right!
"Rick may gain, out of this, the quality he wants. Wants, at the coreof so much that is good!" said Mr. Jarndyce, shaking his head. "Ihave said nothing to Ada, Esther. She has her friend and counselloralways near." And he laid his hand lovingly upon my head.
I could not help showing that I was a little moved, though I did allI could to conceal it.
"Tut tut!" said he. "But we must take care, too, that our littlewoman's life is not all consumed in care for others."
"Care? My dear guardian, I believe I am the happiest creature in theworld!"
"I believe so, too," said he. "But some one may find out what Esthernever will--that the little woman is to be held in remembrance aboveall other people!"
I have omitted to mention in its place that there was some one elseat the family dinner party. It was not a lady. It was a gentleman. Itwas a gentleman of a dark complexion--a young surgeon. He was ratherreserved, but I thought him very sensible and agreeable. At least,Ada asked me if I did not, and I said yes.



CHAPTER XIV
Deportment

Richard left us on the very next evening to begin his new career, andcommitted Ada to my charge with great love for her and great trust inme. It touched me then to reflect, and it touches me now, morenearly, to remember (having what I have to tell) how they boththought of me, even at that engrossing time. I was a part of alltheir plans, for the present and the future. I was to write Richardonce a week, making my faithful report of Ada, who was to write tohim every alternate day. I was to be informed, under his own hand, ofall his labours and successes; I was to observe how resolute andpersevering he would be; I was to be Ada's bridesmaid when they weremarried; I was to live with them afterwards; I was to keep all thekeys of their house; I was to be made happy for ever and a day.
"And if the suit SHOULD make us rich, Esther--which it may, youknow!" said Richard to crown all.
A shade crossed Ada's face.
"My dearest Ada," asked Richard, "why not?"
"It had better declare us poor at once," said Ada.
"Oh! I don't know about that," returned Richard, "but at all events,it won't declare anything at once. It hasn't declared anything inheaven knows how many years."
"Too true," said Ada.
"Yes, but," urged Richard, answering what her look suggested ratherthan her words, "the longer it goes on, dear cousin, the nearer itmust be to a settlement one way or other. Now, is not thatreasonable?"
"You know best, Richard. But I am afraid if we trust to it, it willmake us unhappy."
"But, my Ada, we are not going to trust to it!" cried Richard gaily."We know it better than to trust to it. We only say that if it SHOULDmake us rich, we have no constitutional objection to being rich. Thecourt is, by solemn settlement of law, our grim old guardian, and weare to suppose that what it gives us (when it gives us anything) isour right. It is not necessary to quarrel with our right."
"No," said Ada, "but it may be better to forget all about it."
"Well, well," cried Richard, "then we will forget all about it! Weconsign the whole thing to oblivion. Dame Durden puts on herapproving face, and it's done!"
"Dame Durden's approving face," said I, looking out of the box inwhich I was packing his books, "was not very visible when you calledit by that name; but it does approve, and she thinks you can't dobetter."
So, Richard said there was an end of it, and immediately began, on noother foundation, to build as many castles in the air as would manthe Great Wall of China. He went away in high spirits. Ada and I,prepared to miss him very much, commenced our quieter career.
On our arrival in London, we had called with Mr. Jarndyce at Mrs.Jellyby's but had not been so fortunate as to find her at home. Itappeared that she had gone somewhere to a tea-drinking and had takenMiss Jellyby with her. Besides the tea-drinking, there was to be someconsiderable speech-making and letter-writing on the general meritsof the cultivation of coffee, conjointly with natives, at theSettlement of Borrioboola-Gha. All this involved, no doubt,sufficient active exercise of pen and ink to make her daughter's partin the proceedings anything but a holiday.
It being now beyond the time appointed for Mrs. Jellyby's return, wecalled again. She was in town, but not at home, having gone to MileEnd directly after breakfast on some Borrioboolan business, arisingout of a society called the East London Branch Aid Ramification. As Ihad not seen Peepy on the occasion of our last call (when he was notto be found anywhere, and when the cook rather thought he must havestrolled away with the dustman's cart), I now inquired for him again.The oyster shells he had been building a house with were still in thepassage, but he was nowhere discoverable, and the cook supposed thathe had "gone after the sheep." When we repeated, with some surprise,"The sheep?" she said, Oh, yes, on market days he sometimes followedthem quite out of town and came back in such a state as never was!
I was sitting at the window with my guardian on the followingmorning, and Ada was busy writing--of course to Richard--when MissJellyby was announced, and entered, leading the identical Peepy, whomshe had made some endeavours to render presentable by wiping the dirtinto corners of his face and hands and making his hair very wet andthen violently frizzling it with her fingers. Everything the dearchild wore was either too large for him or too small. Among his othercontradictory decorations he had the hat of a bishop and the littlegloves of a baby. His boots were, on a small scale, the boots of aploughman, while his legs, so crossed and recrossed with scratchesthat they looked like maps, were bare below a very short pair ofplaid drawers finished off with two frills of perfectly differentpatterns. The deficient buttons on his plaid frock had evidently beensupplied from one of Mr. Jellyby's coats, they were so extremelybrazen and so much too large. Most extraordinary specimens ofneedlework appeared on several parts of his dress, where it had beenhastily mended, and I recognized the same hand on Miss Jellyby's. Shewas, however, unaccountably improved in her appearance and lookedvery pretty. She was conscious of poor little Peepy being but afailure after all her trouble, and she showed it as she came in bythe way in which she glanced first at him and then at us.
"Oh, dear me!" said my guardian. "Due east!"
Ada and I gave her a cordial welcome and presented her to Mr.Jarndyce, to whom she said as she sat down, "Ma's compliments, andshe hopes you'll excuse her, because she's correcting proofs of theplan. She's going to put out five thousand new circulars, and sheknows you'll be interested to hear that. I have brought one of themwith me. Ma's compliments." With which she presented it sulkilyenough.
"Thank you," said my guardian. "I am much obliged to Mrs. Jellyby.Oh, dear me! This is a very trying wind!"
We were busy with Peepy, taking off his clerical hat, asking him ifhe remembered us, and so on. Peepy retired behind his elbow at first,but relented at the sight of sponge-cake and allowed me to take himon my lap, where he sat munching quietly. Mr. Jarndyce thenwithdrawing into the temporary growlery, Miss Jellyby opened aconversation with her usual abruptness.
"We are going on just as bad as ever in Thavies Inn," said she. "Ihave no peace of my life. Talk of Africa! I couldn't be worse off ifI was a what's-his-name--man and a brother!"
I tried to say something soothing.
"Oh, it's of no use, Miss Summerson," exclaimed Miss Jellyby, "thoughI thank you for the kind intention all the same. I know how I amused, and I am not to be talked over. YOU wouldn't be talked over ifyou were used so. Peepy, go and play at Wild Beasts under the piano!"
"I shan't!" said Peepy.
"Very well, you ungrateful, naughty, hard-hearted boy!" returned MissJellyby with tears in her eyes. "I'll never take pains to dress youany more."
"Yes, I will go, Caddy!" cried Peepy, who was really a good child andwho was so moved by his sister's vexation that he went at once.
"It seems a little thing to cry about," said poor Miss Jellybyapologetically, "but I am quite worn out. I was directing the newcirculars till two this morning. I detest the whole thing so thatthat alone makes my head ache till I can't see out of my eyes. Andlook at that poor unfortunate child! Was there ever such a fright ashe is!"
Peepy, happily unconscious of the defects in his appearance, sat onthe carpet behind one of the legs of the piano, looking calmly out ofhis den at us while he ate his cake.
"I have sent him to the other end of the room," observed MissJellyby, drawing her chair nearer ours, "because I don't want him tohear the conversation. Those little things are so sharp! I was goingto say, we really are going on worse than ever. Pa will be a bankruptbefore long, and then I hope Ma will be satisfied. There'll he nobodybut Ma to thank for it."
We said we hoped Mr. Jellyby's affairs were not in so bad a state asthat.
"It's of no use hoping, though it's very kind of you," returned MissJellyby, shaking her head. "Pa told me only yesterday morning (anddreadfully unhappy he is) that he couldn't weather the storm. Ishould be surprised if he could. When all our tradesmen send into ourhouse any stuff they like, and the servants do what they like withit, and I have no time to improve things if I knew how, and Ma don'tcare about anything, I should like to make out how Pa is to weatherthe storm. I declare if I was Pa, I'd run away."
"My dear!" said I, smiling. "Your papa, no doubt, considers hisfamily."
"Oh, yes, his family is all very fine, Miss Summerson," replied MissJellyby; "but what comfort is his family to him? His family isnothing but bills, dirt, waste, noise, tumbles downstairs, confusion,and wretchedness. His scrambling home, from week's end to week's end,is like one great washing-day--only nothing's washed!"
Miss Jellyby tapped her foot upon the floor and wiped her eyes.
"I am sure I pity Pa to that degree," she said, "and am so angry withMa that I can't find words to express myself! However, I am not goingto bear it, I am determined. I won't be a slave all my life, and Iwon't submit to be proposed to by Mr. Quale. A pretty thing, indeed,to marry a philanthropist. As if I hadn't had enough of THAT!" saidpoor Miss Jellyby.
I must confess that I could not help feeling rather angry with Mrs.Jellyby myself, seeing and hearing this neglected girl and knowinghow much of bitterly satirical truth there was in what she said.
"If it wasn't that we had been intimate when you stopped at ourhouse," pursued Miss Jellyby, "I should have been ashamed to comehere to-day, for I know what a figure I must seem to you two. But asit is, I made up my mind to call, especially as I am not likely tosee you again the next time you come to town."
She said this with such great significance that Ada and I glanced atone another, foreseeing something more.
"No!" said Miss Jellyby, shaking her head. "Not at all likely! I knowI may trust you two. I am sure you won't betray me. I am engaged."
"Without their knowledge at home?" said I.
"Why, good gracious me, Miss Summerson," she returned, justifyingherself in a fretful but not angry manner, "how can it be otherwise?You know what Ma is--and I needn't make poor Pa more miserable bytelling HIM."
"But would it not be adding to his unhappiness to marry without hisknowledge or consent, my dear?" said I.
"No," said Miss Jellyby, softening. "I hope not. I should try to makehim happy and comfortable when he came to see me, and Peepy and theothers should take it in turns to come and stay with me, and theyshould have some care taken of them then."
There was a good deal of affection in poor Caddy. She softened moreand more while saying this and cried so much over the unwonted littlehome-picture she had raised in her mind that Peepy, in his cave underthe piano, was touched, and turned himself over on his back with loudlamentations. It was not until I had brought him to kiss his sister,and had restored him to his place on my lap, and had shown him thatCaddy was laughing (she laughed expressly for the purpose), that wecould recall his peace of mind; even then it was for some timeconditional on his taking us in turns by the chin and smoothing ourfaces all over with his hand. At last, as his spirits were not equalto the piano, we put him on a chair to look out of window; and MissJellyby, holding him by one leg, resumed her confidence.
"It began in your coming to our house," she said.
We naturally asked how.
"I felt I was so awkward," she replied, "that I made up my mind to beimproved in that respect at all events and to learn to dance. I toldMa I was ashamed of myself, and I must be taught to dance. Ma lookedat me in that provoking way of hers as if I wasn't in sight, but Iwas quite determined to be taught to dance, and so I went to Mr.Turveydrop's Academy in Newman Street."
"And was it there, my dear--" I began.
"Yes, it was there," said Caddy, "and I am engaged to Mr. Turveydrop.There are two Mr. Turveydrops, father and son. My Mr. Turveydrop isthe son, of course. I only wish I had been better brought up and waslikely to make him a better wife, for I am very fond of him."
"I am sorry to hear this," said I, "I must confess."
"I don't know why you should be sorry," she retorted a littleanxiously, "but I am engaged to Mr. Turveydrop, whether or no, and heis very fond of me. It's a secret as yet, even on his side, becauseold Mr. Turveydrop has a share in the connexion and it might breakhis heart or give him some other shock if he was told of it abruptly.Old Mr. Turveydrop is a very gentlemanly man indeed--verygentlemanly."
"Does his wife know of it?" asked Ada.
"Old Mr. Turveydrop's wife, Miss Clare?" returned Miss Jellyby,opening her eyes. "There's no such person. He is a widower."
We were here interrupted by Peepy, whose leg had undergone so much onaccount of his sister's unconsciously jerking it like a bell-ropewhenever she was emphatic that the afflicted child now bemoaned hissufferings with a very low-spirited noise. As he appealed to me forcompassion, and as I was only a listener, I undertook to hold him.Miss Jellyby proceeded, after begging Peepy's pardon with a kiss andassuring him that she hadn't meant to do it.
"That's the state of the case," said Caddy. "If I ever blame myself,I still think it's Ma's fault. We are to be married whenever we can,and then I shall go to Pa at the office and write to Ma. It won'tmuch agitate Ma; I am only pen and ink to HER. One great comfort is,"said Caddy with a sob, "that I shall never hear of Africa after I ammarried. Young Mr. Turveydrop hates it for my sake, and if old Mr.Turveydrop knows there is such a place, it's as much as he does."
"It was he who was very gentlemanly, I think!" said I.
"Very gentlemanly indeed," said Caddy. "He is celebrated almosteverywhere for his deportment."
"Does he teach?" asked Ada.
"No, he don't teach anything in particular," replied Caddy. "But hisdeportment is beautiful."
Caddy went on to say with considerable hesitation and reluctance thatthere was one thing more she wished us to know, and felt we ought toknow, and which she hoped would not offend us. It was that she hadimproved her acquaintance with Miss Flite, the little crazy old lady,and that she frequently went there early in the morning and met herlover for a few minutes before breakfast--only for a few minutes. "Igo there at other times," said Caddy, "but Prince does not come then.Young Mr. Turveydrop's name is Prince; I wish it wasn't, because itsounds like a dog, but of course he didn't christen himself. Old Mr.Turveydrop had him christened Prince in remembrance of the PrinceRegent. Old Mr. Turveydrop adored the Prince Regent on account of hisdeportment. I hope you won't think the worse of me for having madethese little appointments at Miss Flite's, where I first went withyou, because I like the poor thing for her own sake and I believe shelikes me. If you could see young Mr. Turveydrop, I am sure you wouldthink well of him--at least, I am sure you couldn't possibly thinkany ill of him. I am going there now for my lesson. I couldn't askyou to go with me, Miss Summerson; but if you would," said Caddy, whohad said all this earnestly and tremblingly, "I should be veryglad--very glad."
It happened that we had arranged with my guardian to go to MissFlite's that day. We had told him of our former visit, and ouraccount had interested him; but something had always happened toprevent our going there again. As I trusted that I might havesufficient influence with Miss Jellyby to prevent her taking any veryrash step if I fully accepted the confidence she was so willing toplace in me, poor girl, I proposed that she and I and Peepy should goto the academy and afterwards meet my guardian and Ada at MissFlite's, whose name I now learnt for the first time. This was oncondition that Miss Jellyby and Peepy should come back with us todinner. The last article of the agreement being joyfully acceded toby both, we smartened Peepy up a little with the assistance of a fewpins, some soap and water, and a hair-brush, and went out, bendingour steps towards Newman Street, which was very near.
I found the academy established in a sufficiently dingy house at thecorner of an archway, with busts in all the staircase windows. In thesame house there were also established, as I gathered from the plateson the door, a drawing-master, a coal-merchant (there was, certainly,no room for his coals), and a lithographic artist. On the platewhich, in size and situation, took precedence of all the rest, Iread, MR. TURVEYDROP. The door was open, and the hall was blocked upby a grand piano, a harp, and several other musical instruments incases, all in progress of removal, and all looking rakish in thedaylight. Miss Jellyby informed me that the academy had been lent,last night, for a concert.
We went upstairs--it had been quite a fine house once, when it wasanybody's business to keep it clean and fresh, and nobody's businessto smoke in it all day--and into Mr. Turveydrop's great room, whichwas built out into a mews at the back and was lighted by a skylight.It was a bare, resounding room smelling of stables, with cane formsalong the walls, and the walls ornamented at regular intervals withpainted lyres and little cut-glass branches for candles, which seemedto be shedding their old-fashioned drops as other branches might shedautumn leaves. Several young lady pupils, ranging from thirteen orfourteen years of age to two or three and twenty, were assembled; andI was looking among them for their instructor when Caddy, pinching myarm, repeated the ceremony of introduction. "Miss Summerson, Mr.Prince Turveydrop!"
I curtsied to a little blue-eyed fair man of youthful appearance withflaxen hair parted in the middle and curling at the ends all roundhis head. He had a little fiddle, which we used to call at school akit, under his left arm, and its little bow in the same hand. Hislittle dancing-shoes were particularly diminutive, and he had alittle innocent, feminine manner which not only appealed to me in anamiable way, but made this singular effect upon me, that I receivedthe impression that he was like his mother and that his mother hadnot been much considered or well used.
"I am very happy to see Miss Jellyby's friend," he said, bowing lowto me. "I began to fear," with timid tenderness, "as it was past theusual time, that Miss Jellyby was not coming."
"I beg you will have the goodness to attribute that to me, who havedetained her, and to receive my excuses, sir," said I.
"Oh, dear!" said he.
"And pray," I entreated, "do not allow me to be the cause of any moredelay."
With that apology I withdrew to a seat between Peepy (who, being wellused to it, had already climbed into a corner place) and an old ladyof a censorious countenance whose two nieces were in the class andwho was very indignant with Peepy's boots. Prince Turveydrop thentinkled the strings of his kit with his fingers, and the young ladiesstood up to dance. Just then there appeared from a side-door old Mr.Turveydrop, in the full lustre of his deportment.
He was a fat old gentleman with a false complexion, false teeth,false whiskers, and a wig. He had a fur collar, and he had a paddedbreast to his coat, which only wanted a star or a broad blue ribbonto be complete. He was pinched in, and swelled out, and got up, andstrapped down, as much as he could possibly bear. He had such aneckcloth on (puffing his very eyes out of their natural shape), andhis chin and even his ears so sunk into it, that it seemed as thoughhe must inevitably double up if it were cast loose. He had under hisarm a hat of great size and weight, shelving downward from the crownto the brim, and in his hand a pair of white gloves with which heflapped it as he stood poised on one leg in a high-shouldered,round-elbowed state of elegance not to be surpassed. He had a cane,he had an eye-glass, he had a snuff-box, he had rings, he hadwristbands, he had everything but any touch of nature; he was notlike youth, he was not like age, he was not like anything in theworld but a model of deportment.
"Father! A visitor. Miss Jellyby's friend, Miss Summerson."
"Distinguished," said Mr. Turveydrop, "by Miss Summerson's presence."As he bowed to me in that tight state, I almost believe I saw creasescome into the whites of his eyes.
"My father," said the son, aside, to me with quite an affectingbelief in him, "is a celebrated character. My father is greatlyadmired."
"Go on, Prince! Go on!" said Mr. Turveydrop, standing with his backto the fire and waving his gloves condescendingly. "Go on, my son!"
At this command, or by this gracious permission, the lesson went on.Prince Turveydrop sometimes played the kit, dancing; sometimes playedthe piano, standing; sometimes hummed the tune with what littlebreath he could spare, while he set a pupil right; alwaysconscientiously moved with the least proficient through every stepand every part of the figure; and never rested for an instant. Hisdistinguished father did nothing whatever but stand before the fire,a model of deportment.
"And he never does anything else," said the old lady of thecensorious countenance. "Yet would you believe that it's HIS name onthe door-plate?"
"His son's name is the same, you know," said I.
"He wouldn't let his son have any name if he could take it from him,"returned the old lady. "Look at the son's dress!" It certainly wasplain--threadbare--almost shabby. "Yet the father must be garnishedand tricked out," said the old lady, "because of his deportment. I'ddeport him! Transport him would be better!"
I felt curious to know more concerning this person. I asked, "Does hegive lessons in deportment now?"
"Now!" returned the old lady shortly. "Never did."
After a moment's consideration, I suggested that perhaps fencing hadbeen his accomplishment.
"I don't believe he can fence at all, ma'am," said the old lady.
I looked surprised and inquisitive. The old lady, becoming more andmore incensed against the master of deportment as she dwelt upon thesubject, gave me some particulars of his career, with strongassurances that they were mildly stated.
He had married a meek little dancing-mistress, with a tolerableconnexion (having never in his life before done anything but deporthimself), and had worked her to death, or had, at the best, sufferedher to work herself to death, to maintain him in those expenses whichwere indispensable to his position. At once to exhibit his deportmentto the best models and to keep the best models constantly beforehimself, he had found it necessary to frequent all public places offashionable and lounging resort, to be seen at Brighton and elsewhereat fashionable times, and to lead an idle life in the very bestclothes. To enable him to do this, the affectionate littledancing-mistress had toiled and laboured and would have toiled andlaboured to that hour if her strength had lasted so long. For themainspring of the story was that in spite of the man's absorbingselfishness, his wife (overpowered by his deportment) had, to thelast, believed in him and had, on her death-bed, in the most movingterms, confided him to their son as one who had an inextinguishableclaim upon him and whom he could never regard with too much pride anddeference. The son, inheriting his mother's belief, and having thedeportment always before him, had lived and grown in the same faith,and now, at thirty years of age, worked for his father twelve hours aday and looked up to him with veneration on the old imaginarypinnacle.
"The airs the fellow gives himself!" said my informant, shaking herhead at old Mr. Turveydrop with speechless indignation as he drew onhis tight gloves, of course unconscious of the homage she wasrendering. "He fully believes he is one of the aristocracy! And he isso condescending to the son he so egregiously deludes that you mightsuppose him the most virtuous of parents. Oh!" said the old lady,apostrophizing him with infinite vehemence. "I could bite you!"
I could not help being amused, though I heard the old lady out withfeelings of real concern. It was difficult to doubt her with thefather and son before me. What I might have thought of them withoutthe old lady's account, or what I might have thought of the oldlady's account without them, I cannot say. There was a fitness ofthings in the whole that carried conviction with it.
My eyes were yet wandering, from young Mr. Turveydrop working sohard, to old Mr. Turveydrop deporting himself so beautifully, whenthe latter came ambling up to me and entered into conversation.
He asked me, first of all, whether I conferred a charm and adistinction on London by residing in it? I did not think it necessaryto reply that I was perfectly aware I should not do that, in anycase, but merely told him where I did reside.
"A lady so graceful and accomplished," he said, kissing hisright glove and afterwards extending it towards the pupils,"will look leniently on the deficiencies here. We do our best topolish--polish--polish!"
He sat down beside me, taking some pains to sit on the form, Ithought, in imitation of the print of his illustrious model on thesofa. And really he did look very like it.
"To polish--polish--polish!" he repeated, taking a pinch of snuff andgently fluttering his fingers. "But we are not, if I may say so toone formed to be graceful both by Nature and Art--" with thehigh-shouldered bow, which it seemed impossible for him to makewithout lifting up his eyebrows and shutting his eyes "--we are notwhat we used to be in point of deportment."
"Are we not, sir?" said I.
"We have degenerated," he returned, shaking his head, which he coulddo to a very limited extent in his cravat. "A levelling age is notfavourable to deportment. It develops vulgarity. Perhaps I speak withsome little partiality. It may not be for me to say that I have beencalled, for some years now, Gentleman Turveydrop, or that his RoyalHighness the Prince Regent did me the honour to inquire, on myremoving my hat as he drove out of the Pavilion at Brighton (thatfine building), 'Who is he? Who the devil is he? Why don't I knowhim? Why hasn't he thirty thousand a year?' But these are littlematters of anecdote--the general property, ma'am--still repeatedoccasionally among the upper classes."
"Indeed?" said I.
He replied with the high-shouldered bow. "Where what is left among usof deportment," he added, "still lingers. England--alas, mycountry!--has degenerated very much, and is degenerating every day.She has not many gentlemen left. We are few. I see nothing to succeedus but a race of weavers."
"One might hope that the race of gentlemen would be perpetuatedhere," said I.
"You are very good." He smiled with a high-shouldered bow again. "Youflatter me. But, no--no! I have never been able to imbue my poor boywith that part of his art. Heaven forbid that I should disparage mydear child, but he has--no deportment."
"He appears to be an excellent master," I observed.
"Understand me, my dear madam, he IS an excellent master. All thatcan be acquired, he has acquired. All that can be imparted, he canimpart. But there ARE things--" He took another pinch of snuff andmade the bow again, as if to add, "This kind of thing, for instance."
I glanced towards the centre of the room, where Miss Jellyby's lover,now engaged with single pupils, was undergoing greater drudgery thanever.
"My amiable child," murmured Mr. Turveydrop, adjusting his cravat.
"Your son is indefatigable," said I.
"It is my reward," said Mr. Turveydrop, "to hear you say so. In somerespects, he treads in the footsteps of his sainted mother. She was adevoted creature. But wooman, lovely wooman," said Mr. Turveydropwith very disagreeable gallantry, "what a sex you are!"
I rose and joined Miss Jellyby, who was by this time putting on herbonnet. The time allotted to a lesson having fully elapsed, there wasa general putting on of bonnets. When Miss Jellyby and theunfortunate Prince found an opportunity to become betrothed I don'tknow, but they certainly found none on this occasion to exchange adozen words.
"My dear," said Mr. Turveydrop benignly to his son, "do you know thehour?"
"No, father." The son had no watch. The father had a handsome goldone, which he pulled out with an air that was an example to mankind.
"My son," said he, "it's two o'clock. Recollect your school atKensington at three."
"That's time enough for me, father," said Prince. "I can take amorsel of dinner standing and be off."
"My dear boy," returned his father, "you must be very quick. You willfind the cold mutton on the table."
"Thank you, father. Are YOU off now, father?"
"Yes, my dear. I suppose," said Mr. Turveydrop, shutting his eyes andlifting up his shoulders with modest consciousness, "that I must showmyself, as usual, about town."
"You had better dine out comfortably somewhere," said his son.
"My dear child, I intend to. I shall take my little meal, I think, atthe French house, in the Opera Colonnade."
"That's right. Good-bye, father!" said Prince, shaking hands.
"Good-bye, my son. Bless you!"
Mr. Turveydrop said this in quite a pious manner, and it seemed to dohis son good, who, in parting from him, was so pleased with him, sodutiful to him, and so proud of him that I almost felt as if it werean unkindness to the younger man not to be able to believe implicitlyin the elder. The few moments that were occupied by Prince in takingleave of us (and particularly of one of us, as I saw, being in thesecret), enhanced my favourable impression of his almost childishcharacter. I felt a liking for him and a compassion for him as he puthis little kit in his pocket--and with it his desire to stay a littlewhile with Caddy--and went away good-humouredly to his cold muttonand his school at Kensington, that made me scarcely less irate withhis father than the censorious old lady.
The father opened the room door for us and bowed us out in a manner,I must acknowledge, worthy of his shining original. In the same stylehe presently passed us on the other side of the street, on his way tothe aristocratic part of the town, where he was going to show himselfamong the few other gentlemen left. For some moments, I was so lostin reconsidering what I had heard and seen in Newman Street that Iwas quite unable to talk to Caddy or even to fix my attention on whatshe said to me, especially when I began to inquire in my mind whetherthere were, or ever had been, any other gentlemen, not in the dancingprofession, who lived and founded a reputation entirely on theirdeportment. This became so bewildering and suggested the possibilityof so many Mr. Turveydrops that I said, "Esther, you must make upyour mind to abandon this subject altogether and attend to Caddy." Iaccordingly did so, and we chatted all the rest of the way toLincoln's Inn.
Caddy told me that her lover's education had been so neglected thatit was not always easy to read his notes. She said if he were not soanxious about his spelling and took less pains to make it clear, hewould do better; but he put so many unnecessary letters into shortwords that they sometimes quite lost their English appearance. "Hedoes it with the best intention," observed Caddy, "but it hasn't theeffect he means, poor fellow!" Caddy then went on to reason, howcould he be expected to be a scholar when he had passed his wholelife in the dancing-school and had done nothing but teach and fag,fag and teach, morning, noon, and night! And what did it matter? Shecould write letters enough for both, as she knew to her cost, and itwas far better for him to be amiable than learned. "Besides, it's notas if I was an accomplished girl who had any right to give herselfairs," said Caddy. "I know little enough, I am sure, thanks to Ma!
"There's another thing I want to tell you, now we are alone,"continued Caddy, "which I should not have liked to mention unless youhad seen Prince, Miss Summerson. You know what a house ours is. It'sof no use my trying to learn anything that it would be useful forPrince's wife to know in OUR house. We live in such a state of muddlethat it's impossible, and I have only been more disheartened wheneverI have tried. So I get a little practice with--who do you think? PoorMiss Flite! Early in the morning I help her to tidy her room andclean her birds, and I make her cup of coffee for her (of course shetaught me), and I have learnt to make it so well that Prince saysit's the very best coffee he ever tasted, and would quite delight oldMr. Turveydrop, who is very particular indeed about his coffee. I canmake little puddings too; and I know how to buy neck of mutton, andtea, and sugar, and butter, and a good many housekeeping things. I amnot clever at my needle, yet," said Caddy, glancing at the repairs onPeepy's frock, "but perhaps I shall improve, and since I have beenengaged to Prince and have been doing all this, I have feltbetter-tempered, I hope, and more forgiving to Ma. It rather put meout at first this morning to see you and Miss Clare looking so neatand pretty and to feel ashamed of Peepy and myself too, but on thewhole I hope I am better-tempered than I was and more forgiving toMa."
The poor girl, trying so hard, said it from her heart, and touchedmine. "Caddy, my love," I replied, "I begin to have a great affectionfor you, and I hope we shall become friends."
"Oh, do you?" cried Caddy. "How happy that would make me!"
"My dear Caddy," said I, "let us be friends from this time, and letus often have a chat about these matters and try to find the rightway through them." Caddy was overjoyed. I said everything I could inmy old-fashioned way to comfort and encourage her, and I would nothave objected to old Mr. Turveydrop that day for any smallerconsideration than a settlement on his daughter-in-law.
By this time we were come to Mr. Krook's, whose private door stoodopen. There was a bill, pasted on the door-post, announcing a room tolet on the second floor. It reminded Caddy to tell me as we proceededupstairs that there had been a sudden death there and an inquest andthat our little friend had been ill of the fright. The door andwindow of the vacant room being open, we looked in. It was the roomwith the dark door to which Miss Flite had secretly directed myattention when I was last in the house. A sad and desolate place itwas, a gloomy, sorrowful place that gave me a strange sensation ofmournfulness and even dread. "You look pale," said Caddy when we cameout, "and cold!" I felt as if the room had chilled me.
We had walked slowly while we were talking, and my guardian and Adawere here before us. We found them in Miss Flite's garret. They werelooking at the birds, while a medical gentleman who was so good as toattend Miss Flite with much solicitude and compassion spoke with hercheerfully by the fire.
"I have finished my professional visit," he said, coming forward."Miss Flite is much better and may appear in court (as her mind isset upon it) to-morrow. She has been greatly missed there, Iunderstand."
Miss Flite received the compliment with complacency and dropped ageneral curtsy to us.
"Honoured, indeed," said she, "by another visit from the wards inJarndyce! Ve-ry happy to receive Jarndyce of Bleak House beneath myhumble roof!" with a special curtsy. "Fitz-Jarndyce, my dear"--shehad bestowed that name on Caddy, it appeared, and always called herby it--"a double welcome!"
"Has she been very ill?" asked Mr. Jarndyce of the gentleman whom wehad found in attendance on her. She answered for herself directly,though he had put the question in a whisper.
"Oh, decidedly unwell! Oh, very unwell indeed," she saidconfidentially. "Not pain, you know--trouble. Not bodily so much asnervous, nervous! The truth is," in a subdued voice and trembling,"we have had death here. There was poison in the house. I am verysusceptible to such horrid things. It frightened me. Only Mr.Woodcourt knows how much. My physician, Mr. Woodcourt!" withgreat stateliness. "The wards in Jarndyce--Jarndyce of BleakHouse--Fitz-Jarndyce!"
"Miss Flite," said Mr. Woodcourt in a grave kind of voice, as if hewere appealing to her while speaking to us, and laying his handgently on her arm, "Miss Flite describes her illness with her usualaccuracy. She was alarmed by an occurrence in the house which mighthave alarmed a stronger person, and was made ill by the distress andagitation. She brought me here in the first hurry of the discovery,though too late for me to be of any use to the unfortunate man. Ihave compensated myself for that disappointment by coming here sinceand being of some small use to her."
"The kindest physician in the college," whispered Miss Flite to me."I expect a judgment. On the day of judgment. And shall then conferestates."
"She will be as well in a day or two," said Mr. Woodcourt, looking ather with an observant smile, "as she ever will be. In other words,quite well of course. Have you heard of her good fortune?"
"Most extraordinary!" said Miss Flite, smiling brightly. "You neverheard of such a thing, my dear! Every Saturday, Conversation Kenge orGuppy (clerk to Conversation K.) places in my hand a paper ofshillings. Shillings. I assure you! Always the same number in thepaper. Always one for every day in the week. Now you know, really! Sowell-timed, is it not? Ye-es! From whence do these papers come, yousay? That is the great question. Naturally. Shall I tell you what Ithink? I think," said Miss Flite, drawing herself back with a veryshrewd look and shaking her right forefinger in a most significantmanner, "that the Lord Chancellor, aware of the length of time duringwhich the Great Seal has been open (for it has been open a longtime!), forwards them. Until the judgment I expect is given. Nowthat's very creditable, you know. To confess in that way that he IS alittle slow for human life. So delicate! Attending court the otherday--I attend it regularly, with my documents--I taxed him with it,and he almost confessed. That is, I smiled at him from my bench, andHE smiled at me from his bench. But it's great good fortune, is itnot? And Fitz-Jarndyce lays the money out for me to great advantage.Oh, I assure you to the greatest advantage!"
I congratulated her (as she addressed herself to me) upon thisfortunate addition to her income and wished her a long continuance ofit. I did not speculate upon the source from which it came or wonderwhose humanity was so considerate. My guardian stood before me,contemplating the birds, and I had no need to look beyond him.
"And what do you call these little fellows, ma'am?" said he in hispleasant voice. "Have they any names?"
"I can answer for Miss Flite that they have," said I, "for shepromised to tell us what they were. Ada remembers?"
Ada remembered very well.
"Did I?" said Miss Flite. "Who's that at my door? What are youlistening at my door for, Krook?"
The old man of the house, pushing it open before him, appeared therewith his fur cap in his hand and his cat at his heels.
"I warn't listening, Miss Flite," he said, "I was going to give a rapwith my knuckles, only you're so quick!"
"Make your cat go down. Drive her away!" the old lady angrilyexclaimed.
"Bah, bah! There ain't no danger, gentlefolks," said Mr. Krook,looking slowly and sharply from one to another until he had looked atall of us; "she'd never offer at the birds when I was here unless Itold her to it."
"You will excuse my landlord," said the old lady with a dignifiedair. "M, quite M! What do you want, Krook, when I have company?"
"Hi!" said the old man. "You know I am the Chancellor."
"Well?" returned Miss Flite. "What of that?"
"For the Chancellor," said the old man with a chuckle, "not to beacquainted with a Jarndyce is queer, ain't it, Miss Flite? Mightn't Itake the liberty? Your servant, sir. I know Jarndyce and Jarndycea'most as well as you do, sir. I knowed old Squire Tom, sir. I neverto my knowledge see you afore though, not even in court. Yet, I gothere a mortal sight of times in the course of the year, taking oneday with another."
"I never go there," said Mr. Jarndyce (which he never did on anyconsideration). "I would sooner go--somewhere else."
"Would you though?" returned Krook, grinning. "You're bearing hardupon my noble and learned brother in your meaning, sir, thoughperhaps it is but nat'ral in a Jarndyce. The burnt child, sir! What,you're looking at my lodger's birds, Mr. Jarndyce?" The old man hadcome by little and little into the room until he now touched myguardian with his elbow and looked close up into his face with hisspectacled eyes. "It's one of her strange ways that she'll never tellthe names of these birds if she can help it, though she named 'emall." This was in a whisper. "Shall I run 'em over, Flite?" he askedaloud, winking at us and pointing at her as she turned away,affecting to sweep the grate.
"If you like," she answered hurriedly.
The old man, looking up at the cages after another look at us, wentthrough the list.
"Hope, Joy, Youth, Peace, Rest, Life, Dust, Ashes, Waste, Want, Ruin,Despair, Madness, Death, Cunning, Folly, Words, Wigs, Rags,Sheepskin, Plunder, Precedent, Jargon, Gammon, and Spinach. That'sthe whole collection," said the old man, "all cooped up together, bymy noble and learned brother."
"This is a bitter wind!" muttered my guardian.
"When my noble and learned brother gives his judgment, they're to belet go free," said Krook, winking at us again. "And then," he added,whispering and grinning, "if that ever was to happen--which itwon't--the birds that have never been caged would kill 'em."
"If ever the wind was in the east," said my guardian, pretending tolook out of the window for a weathercock, "I think it's thereto-day!"
We found it very difficult to get away from the house. It was notMiss Flite who detained us; she was as reasonable a little creaturein consulting the convenience of others as there possibly could be.It was Mr. Krook. He seemed unable to detach himself from Mr.Jarndyce. If he had been linked to him, he could hardly have attendedhim more closely. He proposed to show us his Court of Chancery andall the strange medley it contained; during the whole of ourinspection (prolonged by himself) he kept close to Mr. Jarndyce andsometimes detained him under one pretence or other until we hadpassed on, as if he were tormented by an inclination to enter uponsome secret subject which he could not make up his mind to approach.I cannot imagine a countenance and manner more singularly expressiveof caution and indecision, and a perpetual impulse to do something hecould not resolve to venture on, than Mr. Krook's was that day. Hiswatchfulness of my guardian was incessant. He rarely removed his eyesfrom his face. If he went on beside him, he observed him with theslyness of an old white fox. If he went before, he looked back. Whenwe stood still, he got opposite to him, and drawing his hand acrossand across his open mouth with a curious expression of a sense ofpower, and turning up his eyes, and lowering his grey eyebrows untilthey appeared to be shut, seemed to scan every lineament of his face.
At last, having been (always attended by the cat) all over the houseand having seen the whole stock of miscellaneous lumber, which wascertainly curious, we came into the back part of the shop. Here onthe head of an empty barrel stood on end were an ink-bottle, some oldstumps of pens, and some dirty playbills; and against the wall werepasted several large printed alphabets in several plain hands.
"What are you doing here?" asked my guardian.
"Trying to learn myself to read and write," said Krook.
"And how do you get on?"
"Slow. Bad," returned the old man impatiently. "It's hard at my timeof life."
"It would be easier to be taught by some one," said my guardian.
"Aye, but they might teach me wrong!" returned the old man with awonderfully suspicious flash of his eye. "I don't know what I mayhave lost by not being learned afore. I wouldn't like to loseanything by being learned wrong now."
"Wrong?" said my guardian with his good-humoured smile. "Who do yousuppose would teach you wrong?"
"I don't know, Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House!" replied the old man,turning up his spectacles on his forehead and rubbing his hands. "Idon't suppose as anybody would, but I'd rather trust my own self thananother!"
These answers and his manner were strange enough to cause my guardianto inquire of Mr. Woodcourt, as we all walked across Lincoln's Inntogether, whether Mr. Krook were really, as his lodger representedhim, deranged. The young surgeon replied, no, he had seen no reasonto think so. He was exceedingly distrustful, as ignorance usuallywas, and he was always more or less under the influence of raw gin,of which he drank great quantities and of which he and his back-shop,as we might have observed, smelt strongly; but he did not think himmad as yet.
On our way home, I so conciliated Peepy's affections by buying him awindmill and two flour-sacks that he would suffer nobody else to takeoff his hat and gloves and would sit nowhere at dinner but at myside. Caddy sat upon the other side of me, next to Ada, to whom weimparted the whole history of the engagement as soon as we got back.We made much of Caddy, and Peepy too; and Caddy brightenedexceedingly; and my guardian was as merry as we were; and we were allvery happy indeed until Caddy went home at night in a hackney-coach,with Peepy fast asleep, but holding tight to the windmill.
I have forgotten to mention--at least I have not mentioned--that Mr.Woodcourt was the same dark young surgeon whom we had met at Mr.Badger's. Or that Mr. Jarndyce invited him to dinner that day. Orthat he came. Or that when they were all gone and I said to Ada,"Now, my darling, let us have a little talk about Richard!" Adalaughed and said--
But I don't think it matters what my darling said. She was alwaysmerry.



CHAPTER XV
Bell Yard

While we were in London Mr. Jarndyce was constantly beset by thecrowd of excitable ladies and gentlemen whose proceedings had so muchastonished us. Mr. Quale, who presented himself soon after ourarrival, was in all such excitements. He seemed to project those twoshining knobs of temples of his into everything that went on and tobrush his hair farther and farther back, until the very roots werealmost ready to fly out of his head in inappeasable philanthropy. Allobjects were alike to him, but he was always particularly ready foranything in the way of a testimonial to any one. His great powerseemed to be his power of indiscriminate admiration. He would sit forany length of time, with the utmost enjoyment, bathing his temples inthe light of any order of luminary. Having first seen him perfectlyswallowed up in admiration of Mrs. Jellyby, I had supposed her to bethe absorbing object of his devotion. I soon discovered my mistakeand found him to be train-bearer and organ-blower to a wholeprocession of people.
Mrs. Pardiggle came one day for a subscription to something, and withher, Mr. Quale. Whatever Mrs. Pardiggle said, Mr. Quale repeated tous; and just as he had drawn Mrs. Jellyby out, he drew Mrs. Pardiggleout. Mrs. Pardiggle wrote a letter of introduction to my guardian inbehalf of her eloquent friend Mr. Gusher. With Mr. Gusher appearedMr. Quale again. Mr. Gusher, being a flabby gentleman with a moistsurface and eyes so much too small for his moon of a face that theyseemed to have been originally made for somebody else, was not atfirst sight prepossessing; yet he was scarcely seated before Mr.Quale asked Ada and me, not inaudibly, whether he was not a greatcreature--which he certainly was, flabbily speaking, though Mr. Qualemeant in intellectual beauty--and whether we were not struck by hismassive configuration of brow. In short, we heard of a great manymissions of various sorts among this set of people, but nothingrespecting them was half so clear to us as that it was Mr. Quale'smission to be in ecstasies with everybody else's mission and that itwas the most popular mission of all.
Mr. Jarndyce had fallen into this company in the tenderness of hisheart and his earnest desire to do all the good in his power; butthat he felt it to be too often an unsatisfactory company, wherebenevolence took spasmodic forms, where charity was assumed as aregular uniform by loud professors and speculators in cheapnotoriety, vehement in profession, restless and vain in action,servile in the last degree of meanness to the great, adulatory of oneanother, and intolerable to those who were anxious quietly to helpthe weak from failing rather than with a great deal of bluster andself-laudation to raise them up a little way when they were down, heplainly told us. When a testimonial was originated to Mr. Quale byMr. Gusher (who had already got one, originated by Mr. Quale), andwhen Mr. Gusher spoke for an hour and a half on the subject to ameeting, including two charity schools of small boys and girls, whowere specially reminded of the widow's mite, and requested to comeforward with halfpence and be acceptable sacrifices, I think the windwas in the east for three whole weeks.
I mention this because I am coming to Mr. Skimpole again. It seemedto me that his off-hand professions of childishness and carelessnesswere a great relief to my guardian, by contrast with such things, andwere the more readily believed in since to find one perfectlyundesigning and candid man among many opposites could not fail togive him pleasure. I should be sorry to imply that Mr. Skimpoledivined this and was politic; I really never understood him wellenough to know. What he was to my guardian, he certainly was to therest of the world.
He had not been very well; and thus, though he lived in London, wehad seen nothing of him until now. He appeared one morning in hisusual agreeable way and as full of pleasant spirits as ever.
Well, he said, here he was! He had been bilious, but rich men wereoften bilious, and therefore he had been persuading himself that hewas a man of property. So he was, in a certain point of view--in hisexpansive intentions. He had been enriching his medical attendant inthe most lavish manner. He had always doubled, and sometimesquadrupled, his fees. He had said to the doctor, "Now, my deardoctor, it is quite a delusion on your part to suppose that youattend me for nothing. I am overwhelming you with money--in myexpansive intentions--if you only knew it!" And really (he said) hemeant it to that degree that he thought it much the same as doing it.If he had had those bits of metal or thin paper to which mankindattached so much importance to put in the doctor's hand, he wouldhave put them in the doctor's hand. Not having them, he substitutedthe will for the deed. Very well! If he really meant it--if his willwere genuine and real, which it was--it appeared to him that it wasthe same as coin, and cancelled the obligation.
"It may be, partly, because I know nothing of the value of money,"said Mr. Skimpole, "but I often feel this. It seems so reasonable! Mybutcher says to me he wants that little bill. It's a part of thepleasant unconscious poetry of the man's nature that he always callsit a 'little' bill--to make the payment appear easy to both of us. Ireply to the butcher, 'My good friend, if you knew it, you are paid.You haven't had the trouble of coming to ask for the little bill. Youare paid. I mean it.'"
"But, suppose," said my guardian, laughing, "he had meant the meat inthe bill, instead of providing it?"
"My dear Jarndyce," he returned, "you surprise me. You take thebutcher's position. A butcher I once dealt with occupied that veryground. Says he, 'Sir, why did you eat spring lamb at eighteen pencea pound?' 'Why did I eat spring lamb at eighteen pence a pound, myhonest friend?' said I, naturally amazed by the question. 'I likespring lamb!' This was so far convincing. 'Well, sir,' says he, 'Iwish I had meant the lamb as you mean the money!' 'My good fellow,'said I, 'pray let us reason like intellectual beings. How could thatbe? It was impossible. You HAD got the lamb, and I have NOT got themoney. You couldn't really mean the lamb without sending it in,whereas I can, and do, really mean the money without paying it!' Hehad not a word. There was an end of the subject."
"Did he take no legal proceedings?" inquired my guardian.
"Yes, he took legal proceedings," said Mr. Skimpole. "But in that hewas influenced by passion, not by reason. Passion reminds me ofBoythorn. He writes me that you and the ladies have promised him ashort visit at his bachelor-house in Lincolnshire."
"He is a great favourite with my girls," said Mr. Jarndyce, "and Ihave promised for them."
"Nature forgot to shade him off, I think," observed Mr. Skimpole toAda and me. "A little too boisterous--like the sea. A little toovehement--like a bull who has made up his mind to consider everycolour scarlet. But I grant a sledge-hammering sort of merit in him!"
I should have been surprised if those two could have thought veryhighly of one another, Mr. Boythorn attaching so much importance tomany things and Mr. Skimpole caring so little for anything. Besideswhich, I had noticed Mr. Boythorn more than once on the point ofbreaking out into some strong opinion when Mr. Skimpole was referredto. Of course I merely joined Ada in saying that we had been greatlypleased with him.
"He has invited me," said Mr. Skimpole; "and if a child may trusthimself in such hands--which the present child is encouraged to do,with the united tenderness of two angels to guard him--I shall go. Heproposes to frank me down and back again. I suppose it will costmoney? Shillings perhaps? Or pounds? Or something of that sort? Bythe by, Coavinses. You remember our friend Coavinses, MissSummerson?"
He asked me as the subject arose in his mind, in his graceful,light-hearted manner and without the least embarrassment.
"Oh, yes!" said I.
"Coavinses has been arrested by the Great Bailiff," said Mr.Skimpole. "He will never do violence to the sunshine any more."
It quite shocked me to hear it, for I had already recalled withanything but a serious association the image of the man sitting onthe sofa that night wiping his head.
"His successor informed me of it yesterday," said Mr. Skimpole. "Hissuccessor is in my house now--in possession, I think he calls it. Hecame yesterday, on my blue-eyed daughter's birthday. I put it to him,'This is unreasonable and inconvenient. If you had a blue-eyeddaughter you wouldn't like ME to come, uninvited, on HER birthday?'But he stayed."
Mr. Skimpole laughed at the pleasant absurdity and lightly touchedthe piano by which he was seated.
"And he told me," he said, playing little chords where I shall putfull stops, "The Coavinses had left. Three children. No mother. Andthat Coavinses' profession. Being unpopular. The rising Coavinses.Were at a considerable disadvantage."
Mr. Jarndyce got up, rubbing his head, and began to walk about. Mr.Skimpole played the melody of one of Ada's favourite songs. Ada and Iboth looked at Mr. Jarndyce, thinking that we knew what was passingin his mind.
After walking and stopping, and several times leaving off rubbing hishead, and beginning again, my guardian put his hand upon the keys andstopped Mr. Skimpole's playing. "I don't like this, Skimpole," hesaid thoughtfully.
Mr. Skimpole, who had quite forgotten the subject, looked upsurprised.
"The man was necessary," pursued my guardian, walking backward andforward in the very short space between the piano and the end of theroom and rubbing his hair up from the back of his head as if a higheast wind had blown it into that form. "If we make such men necessaryby our faults and follies, or by our want of worldly knowledge, or byour misfortunes, we must not revenge ourselves upon them. There wasno harm in his trade. He maintained his children. One would like toknow more about this."
"Oh! Coavinses?" cried Mr. Skimpole, at length perceiving what hemeant. "Nothing easier. A walk to Coavinses' headquarters, and youcan know what you will."
Mr. Jarndyce nodded to us, who were only waiting for the signal."Come! We will walk that way, my dears. Why not that way as soon asanother!" We were quickly ready and went out. Mr. Skimpole went withus and quite enjoyed the expedition. It was so new and so refreshing,he said, for him to want Coavinses instead of Coavinses wanting him!
He took us, first, to Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, where there wasa house with barred windows, which he called Coavinses' Castle. Onour going into the entry and ringing a bell, a very hideous boy cameout of a sort of office and looked at us over a spiked wicket.
"Who did you want?" said the boy, fitting two of the spikes into hischin.
"There was a follower, or an officer, or something, here," said Mr.Jarndyce, "who is dead."
"Yes?" said the boy. "Well?"
"I want to know his name, if you please?"
"Name of Neckett," said the boy.
"And his address?"
"Bell Yard," said the boy. "Chandler's shop, left hand side, name ofBlinder."
"Was he--I don't know how to shape the question--" murmured myguardian, "industrious?"
"Was Neckett?" said the boy. "Yes, wery much so. He was never tiredof watching. He'd set upon a post at a street corner eight or tenhours at a stretch if he undertook to do it."
"He might have done worse," I heard my guardian soliloquize. "Hemight have undertaken to do it and not done it. Thank you. That's allI want."
We left the boy, with his head on one side and his arms on the gate,fondling and sucking the spikes, and went back to Lincoln's Inn,where Mr. Skimpole, who had not cared to remain nearer Coavinses,awaited us. Then we all went to Bell Yard, a narrow alley at a veryshort distance. We soon found the chandler's shop. In it was agood-natured-looking old woman with a dropsy, or an asthma, orperhaps both.
"Neckett's children?" said she in reply to my inquiry. "Yes, Surely,miss. Three pair, if you please. Door right opposite the stairs." Andshe handed me the key across the counter.
I glanced at the key and glanced at her, but she took it for grantedthat I knew what to do with it. As it could only be intended for thechildren's door, I came out without asking any more questions and ledthe way up the dark stairs. We went as quietly as we could, but fourof us made some noise on the aged boards, and when we came to thesecond story we found we had disturbed a man who was standing therelooking out of his room.
"Is it Gridley that's wanted?" he said, fixing his eyes on me with anangry stare.
"No, sir," said I; "I am going higher up."
He looked at Ada, and at Mr. Jarndyce, and at Mr. Skimpole, fixingthe same angry stare on each in succession as they passed andfollowed me. Mr. Jarndyce gave him good day. "Good day!" he saidabruptly and fiercely. He was a tall, sallow man with a careworn headon which but little hair remained, a deeply lined face, and prominenteyes. He had a combative look and a chafing, irritable manner which,associated with his figure--still large and powerful, thoughevidently in its decline--rather alarmed me. He had a pen in hishand, and in the glimpse I caught of his room in passing, I saw thatit was covered with a litter of papers.
Leaving him standing there, we went up to the top room. I tapped atthe door, and a little shrill voice inside said, "We are locked in.Mrs. Blinder's got the key!"
I applied the key on hearing this and opened the door. In a poor roomwith a sloping ceiling and containing very little furniture was amite of a boy, some five or six years old, nursing and hushing aheavy child of eighteen months. There was no fire, though the weatherwas cold; both children were wrapped in some poor shawls and tippetsas a substitute. Their clothing was not so warm, however, but thattheir noses looked red and pinched and their small figures shrunkenas the boy walked up and down nursing and hushing the child with itshead on his shoulder.
"Who has locked you up here alone?" we naturally asked.
"Charley," said the boy, standing still to gaze at us.
"Is Charley your brother?"
"No. She's my sister, Charlotte. Father called her Charley."
"Are there any more of you besides Charley?"
"Me," said the boy, "and Emma," patting the limp bonnet of the childhe was nursing. "And Charley."
"Where is Charley now?"
"Out a-washing," said the boy, beginning to walk up and down againand taking the nankeen bonnet much too near the bedstead by trying togaze at us at the same time.
We were looking at one another and at these two children when therecame into the room a very little girl, childish in figure but shrewdand older-looking in the face--pretty-faced too--wearing a womanlysort of bonnet much too large for her and drying her bare arms on awomanly sort of apron. Her fingers were white and wrinkled withwashing, and the soap-suds were yet smoking which she wiped off herarms. But for this, she might have been a child playing at washingand imitating a poor working-woman with a quick observation of thetruth.
She had come running from some place in the neighbourhood and hadmade all the haste she could. Consequently, though she was verylight, she was out of breath and could not speak at first, as shestood panting, and wiping her arms, and looking quietly at us.
"Oh, here's Charley!" said the boy.
The child he was nursing stretched forth its arms and cried out to betaken by Charley. The little girl took it, in a womanly sort ofmanner belonging to the apron and the bonnet, and stood looking at usover the burden that clung to her most affectionately.
"Is it possible," whispered my guardian as we put a chair for thelittle creature and got her to sit down with her load, the boykeeping close to her, holding to her apron, "that this child worksfor the rest? Look at this! For God's sake, look at this!"
It was a thing to look at. The three children close together, and twoof them relying solely on the third, and the third so young and yetwith an air of age and steadiness that sat so strangely on thechildish figure.
"Charley, Charley!" said my guardian. "How old are you?"
"Over thirteen, sir," replied the child.
"Oh! What a great age," said my guardian. "What a great age,Charley!"
I cannot describe the tenderness with which he spoke to her, halfplayfully yet all the more compassionately and mournfully.
"And do you live alone here with these babies, Charley?" said myguardian.
"Yes, sir," returned the child, looking up into his face with perfectconfidence, "since father died."
"And how do you live, Charley? Oh! Charley," said my guardian,turning his face away for a moment, "how do you live?"
"Since father died, sir, I've gone out to work. I'm out washingto-day."
"God help you, Charley!" said my guardian. "You're not tall enough toreach the tub!"
"In pattens I am, sir," she said quickly. "I've got a high pair asbelonged to mother."
"And when did mother die? Poor mother!"
"Mother died just after Emma was born," said the child, glancing atthe face upon her bosom. "Then father said I was to be as good amother to her as I could. And so I tried. And so I worked at home anddid cleaning and nursing and washing for a long time before I beganto go out. And that's how I know how; don't you see, sir?"
"And do you often go out?"
"As often as I can," said Charley, opening her eyes and smiling,"because of earning sixpences and shillings!"
"And do you always lock the babies up when you go out?"
"To keep 'em safe, sir, don't you see?" said Charley. "Mrs. Blindercomes up now and then, and Mr. Gridley comes up sometimes, andperhaps I can run in sometimes, and they can play you know, and Toman't afraid of being locked up, are you, Tom?"
"No-o!" said Tom stoutly.
"When it comes on dark, the lamps are lighted down in the court, andthey show up here quite bright--almost quite bright. Don't they,Tom?"
"Yes, Charley," said Tom, "almost quite bright."
"Then he's as good as gold," said the little creature--Oh, in such amotherly, womanly way! "And when Emma's tired, he puts her to bed.And when he's tired he goes to bed himself. And when I come home andlight the candle and has a bit of supper, he sits up again and has itwith me. Don't you, Tom?"
"Oh, yes, Charley!" said Tom. "That I do!" And either in this glimpseof the great pleasure of his life or in gratitude and love forCharley, who was all in all to him, he laid his face among the scantyfolds of her frock and passed from laughing into crying.
It was the first time since our entry that a tear had been shed amongthese children. The little orphan girl had spoken of their father andtheir mother as if all that sorrow were subdued by the necessity oftaking courage, and by her childish importance in being able to work,and by her bustling busy way. But now, when Tom cried, although shesat quite tranquil, looking quietly at us, and did not by anymovement disturb a hair of the head of either of her little charges,I saw two silent tears fall down her face.
I stood at the window with Ada, pretending to look at the housetops,and the blackened stack of chimneys, and the poor plants, and thebirds in little cages belonging to the neighbours, when I found thatMrs. Blinder, from the shop below, had come in (perhaps it had takenher all this time to get upstairs) and was talking to my guardian.
"It's not much to forgive 'em the rent, sir," she said; "who couldtake it from them!"
"Well, well!" said my guardian to us two. "It is enough that the timewill come when this good woman will find that it WAS much, and thatforasmuch as she did it unto the least of these--This child," headded after a few moments, "could she possibly continue this?"
"Really, sir, I think she might," said Mrs. Blinder, getting herheavy breath by painful degrees. "She's as handy as it's possible tobe. Bless you, sir, the way she tended them two children after themother died was the talk of the yard! And it was a wonder to see herwith him after he was took ill, it really was! 'Mrs. Blinder,' hesaid to me the very last he spoke--he was lying there--'Mrs.Blinder, whatever my calling may have been, I see a angel sitting inthis room last night along with my child, and I trust her to OurFather!'"
"He had no other calling?" said my guardian.
"No, sir," returned Mrs. Blinder, "he was nothing but a follerers.When he first came to lodge here, I didn't know what he was, and Iconfess that when I found out I gave him notice. It wasn't liked inthe yard. It wasn't approved by the other lodgers. It is NOT agenteel calling," said Mrs. Blinder, "and most people do object toit. Mr. Gridley objected to it very strong, and he is a good lodger,though his temper has been hard tried."
"So you gave him notice?" said my guardian.
"So I gave him notice," said Mrs. Blinder. "But really when the timecame, and I knew no other ill of him, I was in doubts. He waspunctual and diligent; he did what he had to do, sir," said Mrs.Blinder, unconsciously fixing Mr. Skimpole with her eye, "and it'ssomething in this world even to do that."
"So you kept him after all?"
"Why, I said that if he could arrange with Mr. Gridley, I couldarrange it with the other lodgers and should not so much mind itsbeing liked or disliked in the yard. Mr. Gridley gave his consentgruff--but gave it. He was always gruff with him, but he has beenkind to the children since. A person is never known till a person isproved."
"Have many people been kind to the children?" asked Mr. Jarndyce.
"Upon the whole, not so bad, sir," said Mrs. Blinder; "but certainlynot so many as would have been if their father's calling had beendifferent. Mr. Coavins gave a guinea, and the follerers made up alittle purse. Some neighbours in the yard that had always joked andtapped their shoulders when he went by came forward with a littlesubscription, and--in general--not so bad. Similarly with Charlotte.Some people won't employ her because she was a follerer's child; somepeople that do employ her cast it at her; some make a merit of havingher to work for them, with that and all her draw-backs upon her, andperhaps pay her less and put upon her more. But she's patienter thanothers would be, and is clever too, and always willing, up to thefull mark of her strength and over. So I should say, in general, notso bad, sir, but might be better."
Mrs. Blinder sat down to give herself a more favourable opportunityof recovering her breath, exhausted anew by so much talking before itwas fully restored. Mr. Jarndyce was turning to speak to us when hisattention was attracted by the abrupt entrance into the room of theMr. Gridley who had been mentioned and whom we had seen on our wayup.
"I don't know what you may be doing here, ladies and gentlemen," hesaid, as if he resented our presence, "but you'll excuse my comingin. I don't come in to stare about me. Well, Charley! Well, Tom!Well, little one! How is it with us all to-day?"
He bent over the group in a caressing way and clearly was regarded asa friend by the children, though his face retained its sterncharacter and his manner to us was as rude as it could be. Myguardian noticed it and respected it.
"No one, surely, would come here to stare about him," he said mildly.
"May be so, sir, may be so," returned the other, taking Tom upon hisknee and waving him off impatiently. "I don't want to argue withladies and gentlemen. I have had enough of arguing to last one manhis life."
"You have sufficient reason, I dare say," said Mr. Jarndyce, "forbeing chafed and irritated--"
"There again!" exclaimed the man, becoming violently angry. "I am ofa quarrelsome temper. I am irascible. I am not polite!"
"Not very, I think."
"Sir," said Gridley, putting down the child and going up to him as ifhe meant to strike him, "do you know anything of Courts of Equity?"
"Perhaps I do, to my sorrow."
"To your sorrow?" said the man, pausing in his wrath, "if so, I begyour pardon. I am not polite, I know. I beg your pardon! Sir," withrenewed violence, "I have been dragged for five and twenty years overburning iron, and I have lost the habit of treading upon velvet. Gointo the Court of Chancery yonder and ask what is one of the standingjokes that brighten up their business sometimes, and they will tellyou that the best joke they have is the man from Shropshire. I," hesaid, beating one hand on the other passionately, "am the man fromShropshire."
"I believe I and my family have also had the honour of furnishingsome entertainment in the same grave place," said my guardiancomposedly. "You may have heard my name--Jarndyce."
"Mr. Jarndyce," said Gridley with a rough sort of salutation, "youbear your wrongs more quietly than I can bear mine. More than that, Itell you--and I tell this gentleman, and these young ladies, if theyare friends of yours--that if I took my wrongs in any other way, Ishould be driven mad! It is only by resenting them, and by revengingthem in my mind, and by angrily demanding the justice I never get,that I am able to keep my wits together. It is only that!" he said,speaking in a homely, rustic way and with great vehemence. "You maytell me that I over-excite myself. I answer that it's in my nature todo it, under wrong, and I must do it. There's nothing between doingit, and sinking into the smiling state of the poor little mad womanthat haunts the court. If I was once to sit down under it, I shouldbecome imbecile."
The passion and heat in which he was, and the manner in which hisface worked, and the violent gestures with which he accompanied whathe said, were most painful to see.
"Mr. Jarndyce," he said, "consider my case. As true as there is aheaven above us, this is my case. I am one of two brothers. My father(a farmer) made a will and left his farm and stock and so forth to mymother for her life. After my mother's death, all was to come to meexcept a legacy of three hundred pounds that I was then to pay mybrother. My mother died. My brother some time afterwards claimed hislegacy. I and some of my relations said that he had had a part of italready in board and lodging and some other things. Now mind! Thatwas the question, and nothing else. No one disputed the will; no onedisputed anything but whether part of that three hundred pounds hadbeen already paid or not. To settle that question, my brother filinga bill, I was obliged to go into this accursed Chancery; I was forcedthere because the law forced me and would let me go nowhere else.Seventeen people were made defendants to that simple suit! It firstcame on after two years. It was then stopped for another two yearswhile the master (may his head rot off!) inquired whether I was myfather's son, about which there was no dispute at all with any mortalcreature. He then found out that there were not defendantsenough--remember, there were only seventeen as yet!--but that we musthave another who had been left out and must begin all over again. Thecosts at that time--before the thing was begun!--were three times thelegacy. My brother would have given up the legacy, and joyful, toescape more costs. My whole estate, left to me in that will of myfather's, has gone in costs. The suit, still undecided, has falleninto rack, and ruin, and despair, with everything else--and here Istand, this day! Now, Mr. Jarndyce, in your suit there are thousandsand thousands involved, where in mine there are hundreds. Is mineless hard to bear or is it harder to bear, when my whole living wasin it and has been thus shamefully sucked away?"
Mr. Jarndyce said that he condoled with him with all his heart andthat he set up no monopoly himself in being unjustly treated by thismonstrous system.
"There again!" said Mr. Gridley with no diminution of his rage. "Thesystem! I am told on all hands, it's the system. I mustn't look toindividuals. It's the system. I mustn't go into court and say, 'MyLord, I beg to know this from you--is this right or wrong? Have youthe face to tell me I have received justice and therefore amdismissed?' My Lord knows nothing of it. He sits there to administerthe system. I mustn't go to Mr. Tulkinghorn, the solicitor inLincoln's Inn Fields, and say to him when he makes me furious bybeing so cool and satisfied--as they all do, for I know they gain byit while I lose, don't I?--I mustn't say to him, 'I will havesomething out of some one for my ruin, by fair means or foul!' HE isnot responsible. It's the system. But, if I do no violence to any ofthem, here--I may! I don't know what may happen if I am carriedbeyond myself at last! I will accuse the individual workers of thatsystem against me, face to face, before the great eternal bar!"
His passion was fearful. I could not have believed in such ragewithout seeing it.
"I have done!" he said, sitting down and wiping his face. "Mr.Jarndyce, I have done! I am violent, I know. I ought to know it. Ihave been in prison for contempt of court. I have been in prison forthreatening the solicitor. I have been in this trouble, and thattrouble, and shall be again. I am the man from Shropshire, and Isometimes go beyond amusing them, though they have found it amusing,too, to see me committed into custody and brought up in custody andall that. It would be better for me, they tell me, if I restrainedmyself. I tell them that if I did restrain myself I should becomeimbecile. I was a good-enough-tempered man once, I believe. People inmy part of the country say they remember me so, but now I must havethis vent under my sense of injury or nothing could hold my witstogether. It would be far better for you, Mr. Gridley,' the LordChancellor told me last week, 'not to waste your time here, and tostay, usefully employed, down in Shropshire.' 'My Lord, my Lord, Iknow it would,' said I to him, 'and it would have been far better forme never to have heard the name of your high office, but unhappilyfor me, I can't undo the past, and the past drives me here!'Besides," he added, breaking fiercely out, "I'll shame them. To thelast, I'll show myself in that court to its shame. If I knew when Iwas going to die, and could be carried there, and had a voice tospeak with, I would die there, saying, 'You have brought me here andsent me from here many and many a time. Now send me out feetforemost!'"
His countenance had, perhaps for years, become so set in itscontentious expression that it did not soften, even now when he wasquiet.
"I came to take these babies down to my room for an hour," he said,going to them again, "and let them play about. I didn't mean to sayall this, but it don't much signify. You're not afraid of me, Tom,are you?"
"No!" said Tom. "You ain't angry with ME."
"You are right, my child. You're going back, Charley? Aye? Come then,little one!" He took the youngest child on his arm, where she waswilling enough to be carried. "I shouldn't wonder if we found aginger-bread soldier downstairs. Let's go and look for him!"
He made his former rough salutation, which was not deficient in acertain respect, to Mr. Jarndyce, and bowing slightly to us, wentdownstairs to his room.
Upon that, Mr. Skimpole began to talk, for the first time since ourarrival, in his usual gay strain. He said, Well, it was really verypleasant to see how things lazily adapted themselves to purposes.Here was this Mr. Gridley, a man of a robust will and surprisingenergy--intellectually speaking, a sort of inharmoniousblacksmith--and he could easily imagine that there Gridley was, yearsago, wandering about in life for something to expend his superfluouscombativeness upon--a sort of Young Love among the thorns--when theCourt of Chancery came in his way and accommodated him with the exactthing he wanted. There they were, matched, ever afterwards! Otherwisehe might have been a great general, blowing up all sorts of towns, orhe might have been a great politician, dealing in all sorts ofparliamentary rhetoric; but as it was, he and the Court of Chanceryhad fallen upon each other in the pleasantest way, and nobody wasmuch the worse, and Gridley was, so to speak, from that hour providedfor. Then look at Coavinses! How delightfully poor Coavinses (fatherof these charming children) illustrated the same principle! He, Mr.Skimpole, himself, had sometimes repined at the existence ofCoavinses. He had found Coavinses in his way. He could had dispensedwith Coavinses. There had been times when, if he had been a sultan,and his grand vizier had said one morning, "What does the Commanderof the Faithful require at the hands of his slave?" he might haveeven gone so far as to reply, "The head of Coavinses!" But whatturned out to be the case? That, all that time, he had been givingemployment to a most deserving man, that he had been a benefactor toCoavinses, that he had actually been enabling Coavinses to bring upthese charming children in this agreeable way, developing thesesocial virtues! Insomuch that his heart had just now swelled and thetears had come into his eyes when he had looked round the room andthought, "I was the great patron of Coavinses, and his littlecomforts were MY work!"
There was something so captivating in his light way of touching thesefantastic strings, and he was such a mirthful child by the side ofthe graver childhood we had seen, that he made my guardian smile evenas he turned towards us from a little private talk with Mrs. Blinder.We kissed Charley, and took her downstairs with us, and stoppedoutside the house to see her run away to her work. I don't know whereshe was going, but we saw her run, such a little, little creature inher womanly bonnet and apron, through a covered way at the bottom ofthe court and melt into the city's strife and sound like a dewdrop inan ocean.



CHAPTER XVI
Tom-all-Alone's

My Lady Dedlock is restless, very restless. The astonishedfashionable intelligence hardly knows where to have her. To-day sheis at Chesney Wold; yesterday she was at her house in town; to-morrowshe may be abroad, for anything the fashionable intelligence can withconfidence predict. Even Sir Leicester's gallantry has some troubleto keep pace with her. It would have more but that his other faithfulally, for better and for worse--the gout--darts into the old oakbed-chamber at Chesney Wold and grips him by both legs.
Sir Leicester receives the gout as a troublesome demon, but still ademon of the patrician order. All the Dedlocks, in the direct maleline, through a course of time during and beyond which the memory ofman goeth not to the contrary, have had the gout. It can be proved,sir. Other men's fathers may have died of the rheumatism or may havetaken base contagion from the tainted blood of the sick vulgar, butthe Dedlock family have communicated something exclusive even to thelevelling process of dying by dying of their own family gout. It hascome down through the illustrious line like the plate, or thepictures, or the place in Lincolnshire. It is among their dignities.Sir Leicester is perhaps not wholly without an impression, though hehas never resolved it into words, that the angel of death in thedischarge of his necessary duties may observe to the shades of thearistocracy, "My lords and gentlemen, I have the honour to present toyou another Dedlock certified to have arrived per the family gout."
Hence Sir Leicester yields up his family legs to the family disorderas if he held his name and fortune on that feudal tenure. He feelsthat for a Dedlock to be laid upon his back and spasmodicallytwitched and stabbed in his extremities is a liberty taken somewhere,but he thinks, "We have all yielded to this; it belongs to us; it hasfor some hundreds of years been understood that we are not to makethe vaults in the park interesting on more ignoble terms; and Isubmit myself to the compromise."
And a goodly show he makes, lying in a flush of crimson and gold inthe midst of the great drawing-room before his favourite picture ofmy Lady, with broad strips of sunlight shining in, down the longperspective, through the long line of windows, and alternating withsoft reliefs of shadow. Outside, the stately oaks, rooted for ages inthe green ground which has never known ploughshare, but was still achase when kings rode to battle with sword and shield and rodea-hunting with bow and arrow, bear witness to his greatness. Inside,his forefathers, looking on him from the walls, say, "Each of us wasa passing reality here and left this coloured shadow of himself andmelted into remembrance as dreamy as the distant voices of the rooksnow lulling you to rest," and hear their testimony to his greatnesstoo. And he is very great this day. And woe to Boythorn or otherdaring wight who shall presumptuously contest an inch with him!
My Lady is at present represented, near Sir Leicester, by herportrait. She has flitted away to town, with no intention ofremaining there, and will soon flit hither again, to the confusion ofthe fashionable intelligence. The house in town is not prepared forher reception. It is muffled and dreary. Only one Mercury in powdergapes disconsolate at the hall-window; and he mentioned last night toanother Mercury of his acquaintance, also accustomed to good society,that if that sort of thing was to last--which it couldn't, for a manof his spirits couldn't bear it, and a man of his figure couldn't beexpected to bear it--there would be no resource for him, upon hishonour, but to cut his throat!
What connexion can there be between the place in Lincolnshire, thehouse in town, the Mercury in powder, and the whereabout of Jo theoutlaw with the broom, who had that distant ray of light upon himwhen he swept the churchyard-step? What connexion can there have beenbetween many people in the innumerable histories of this world whofrom opposite sides of great gulfs have, nevertheless, been verycuriously brought together!
Jo sweeps his crossing all day long, unconscious of the link, if anylink there be. He sums up his mental condition when asked a questionby replying that he "don't know nothink." He knows that it's hard tokeep the mud off the crossing in dirty weather, and harder still tolive by doing it. Nobody taught him even that much; he found it out.
Jo lives--that is to say, Jo has not yet died--in a ruinous placeknown to the like of him by the name of Tom-all-Alone's. It is ablack, dilapidated street, avoided by all decent people, where thecrazy houses were seized upon, when their decay was far advanced, bysome bold vagrants who after establishing their own possession tookto letting them out in lodgings. Now, these tumbling tenementscontain, by night, a swarm of misery. As on the ruined human wretchvermin parasites appear, so these ruined shelters have bred a crowdof foul existence that crawls in and out of gaps in walls and boards;and coils itself to sleep, in maggot numbers, where the rain dripsin; and comes and goes, fetching and carrying fever and sowing moreevil in its every footprint than Lord Coodle, and Sir Thomas Doodle,and the Duke of Foodle, and all the fine gentlemen in office, down toZoodle, shall set right in five hundred years--though born expresslyto do it.
Twice lately there has been a crash and a cloud of dust, like thespringing of a mine, in Tom-all-Alone's; and each time a house hasfallen. These accidents have made a paragraph in the newspapers andhave filled a bed or two in the nearest hospital. The gaps remain,and there are not unpopular lodgings among the rubbish. As severalmore houses are nearly ready to go, the next crash in Tom-all-Alone'smay be expected to be a good one.
This desirable property is in Chancery, of course. It would be aninsult to the discernment of any man with half an eye to tell him so.Whether "Tom" is the popular representative of the original plaintiffor defendant in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, or whether Tom lived here whenthe suit had laid the street waste, all alone, until other settlerscame to join him, or whether the traditional title is a comprehensivename for a retreat cut off from honest company and put out of thepale of hope, perhaps nobody knows. Certainly Jo don't know.
"For I don't," says Jo, "I don't know nothink."
It must be a strange state to be like Jo! To shuffle through thestreets, unfamiliar with the shapes, and in utter darkness as to themeaning, of those mysterious symbols, so abundant over the shops, andat the corners of streets, and on the doors, and in the windows! Tosee people read, and to see people write, and to see the postmendeliver letters, and not to have the least idea of all thatlanguage--to be, to every scrap of it, stone blind and dumb! It mustbe very puzzling to see the good company going to the churches onSundays, with their books in their hands, and to think (for perhapsJo DOES think at odd times) what does it all mean, and if it meansanything to anybody, how comes it that it means nothing to me? To behustled, and jostled, and moved on; and really to feel that it wouldappear to be perfectly true that I have no business here, or there,or anywhere; and yet to be perplexed by the consideration that I AMhere somehow, too, and everybody overlooked me until I became thecreature that I am! It must be a strange state, not merely to be toldthat I am scarcely human (as in the case of my offering myself for awitness), but to feel it of my own knowledge all my life! To see thehorses, dogs, and cattle go by me and to know that in ignorance Ibelong to them and not to the superior beings in my shape, whosedelicacy I offend! Jo's ideas of a criminal trial, or a judge, or abishop, or a government, or that inestimable jewel to him (if he onlyknew it) the Constitution, should be strange! His whole material andimmaterial life is wonderfully strange; his death, the strangestthing of all.
Jo comes out of Tom-all-Alone's, meeting the tardy morning which isalways late in getting down there, and munches his dirty bit of breadas he comes along. His way lying through many streets, and the housesnot yet being open, he sits down to breakfast on the door-step of theSociety for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts and givesit a brush when he has finished as an acknowledgment of theaccommodation. He admires the size of the edifice and wonders whatit's all about. He has no idea, poor wretch, of the spiritualdestitution of a coral reef in the Pacific or what it costs to lookup the precious souls among the coco-nuts and bread-fruit.
He goes to his crossing and begins to lay it out for the day. Thetown awakes; the great tee-totum is set up for its daily spin andwhirl; all that unaccountable reading and writing, which has beensuspended for a few hours, recommences. Jo and the other loweranimals get on in the unintelligible mess as they can. It ismarket-day. The blinded oxen, over-goaded, over-driven, never guided,run into wrong places and are beaten out, and plunge red-eyed andfoaming at stone walls, and often sorely hurt the innocent, and oftensorely hurt themselves. Very like Jo and his order; very, very like!
A band of music comes and plays. Jo listens to it. So does a dog--adrover's dog, waiting for his master outside a butcher's shop, andevidently thinking about those sheep he has had upon his mind forsome hours and is happily rid of. He seems perplexed respecting threeor four, can't remember where he left them, looks up and down thestreet as half expecting to see them astray, suddenly pricks up hisears and remembers all about it. A thoroughly vagabond dog,accustomed to low company and public-houses; a terrific dog to sheep,ready at a whistle to scamper over their backs and tear out mouthfulsof their wool; but an educated, improved, developed dog who has beentaught his duties and knows how to discharge them. He and Jo listento the music, probably with much the same amount of animalsatisfaction; likewise as to awakened association, aspiration, orregret, melancholy or joyful reference to things beyond the senses,they are probably upon a par. But, otherwise, how far above the humanlistener is the brute!
Turn that dog's descendants wild, like Jo, and in a very few yearsthey will so degenerate that they will lose even their bark--but nottheir bite.
The day changes as it wears itself away and becomes dark and drizzly.Jo fights it out at his crossing among the mud and wheels, thehorses, whips, and umbrellas, and gets but a scanty sum to pay forthe unsavoury shelter of Tom-all-Alone's. Twilight comes on; gasbegins to start up in the shops; the lamplighter, with his ladder,runs along the margin of the pavement. A wretched evening isbeginning to close in.
In his chambers Mr. Tulkinghorn sits meditating an application to thenearest magistrate to-morrow morning for a warrant. Gridley, adisappointed suitor, has been here to-day and has been alarming. Weare not to be put in bodily fear, and that ill-conditioned fellowshall be held to bail again. From the ceiling, foreshortenedAllegory, in the person of one impossible Roman upside down, pointswith the arm of Samson (out of joint, and an odd one) obtrusivelytoward the window. Why should Mr. Tulkinghorn, for such no reason,look out of window? Is the hand not always pointing there? So he doesnot look out of window.
And if he did, what would it be to see a woman going by? There arewomen enough in the world, Mr. Tulkinghorn thinks--too many; they areat the bottom of all that goes wrong in it, though, for the matter ofthat, they create business for lawyers. What would it be to see awoman going by, even though she were going secretly? They are allsecret. Mr. Tulkinghorn knows that very well.
But they are not all like the woman who now leaves him and his housebehind, between whose plain dress and her refined manner there issomething exceedingly inconsistent. She should be an upper servant byher attire, yet in her air and step, though both are hurried andassumed--as far as she can assume in the muddy streets, which shetreads with an unaccustomed foot--she is a lady. Her face is veiled,and still she sufficiently betrays herself to make more than one ofthose who pass her look round sharply.
She never turns her head. Lady or servant, she has a purpose in herand can follow it. She never turns her head until she comes to thecrossing where Jo plies with his broom. He crosses with her and begs.Still, she does not turn her head until she has landed on the otherside. Then she slightly beckons to him and says, "Come here!"
Jo follows her a pace or two into a quiet court.
"Are you the boy I've read of in the papers?" she asked behind herveil.
"I don't know," says Jo, staring moodily at the veil, "nothink aboutno papers. I don't know nothink about nothink at all."
"Were you examined at an inquest?"
"I don't know nothink about no--where I was took by the beadle, doyou mean?" says Jo. "Was the boy's name at the inkwhich Jo?"
"Yes."
"That's me!" says Jo.
"Come farther up."
"You mean about the man?" says Jo, following. "Him as wos dead?"
"Hush! Speak in a whisper! Yes. Did he look, when he was living, sovery ill and poor?"
"Oh, jist!" says Jo.
"Did he look like--not like YOU?" says the woman with abhorrence.
"Oh, not so bad as me," says Jo. "I'm a reg'lar one I am! You didn'tknow him, did you?"
"How dare you ask me if I knew him?"
"No offence, my lady," says Jo with much humility, for even he hasgot at the suspicion of her being a lady.
"I am not a lady. I am a servant."
"You are a jolly servant!" says Jo without the least idea of sayinganything offensive, merely as a tribute of admiration.
"Listen and be silent. Don't talk to me, and stand farther from me!Can you show me all those places that were spoken of in the account Iread? The place he wrote for, the place he died at, the place whereyou were taken to, and the place where he was buried? Do you know theplace where he was buried?"
Jo answers with a nod, having also nodded as each other place wasmentioned.
"Go before me and show me all those dreadful places. Stop opposite toeach, and don't speak to me unless I speak to you. Don't look back.Do what I want, and I will pay you well."
Jo attends closely while the words are being spoken; tells them offon his broom-handle, finding them rather hard; pauses to considertheir meaning; considers it satisfactory; and nods his ragged head.
"I'm fly," says Jo. "But fen larks, you know. Stow hooking it!"
"What does the horrible creature mean?" exclaims the servant,recoiling from him.
"Stow cutting away, you know!" says Jo.
"I don't understand you. Go on before! I will give you more moneythan you ever had in your life."
Jo screws up his mouth into a whistle, gives his ragged head a rub,takes his broom under his arm, and leads the way, passing deftly withhis bare feet over the hard stones and through the mud and mire.
Cook's Court. Jo stops. A pause.
"Who lives here?"
"Him wot give him his writing and give me half a bull," says Jo in awhisper without looking over his shoulder.
"Go on to the next."
Krook's house. Jo stops again. A longer pause.
"Who lives here?"
"HE lived here," Jo answers as before.
After a silence he is asked, "In which room?"
"In the back room up there. You can see the winder from this corner.Up there! That's where I see him stritched out. This is thepublic-ouse where I was took to."
"Go on to the next!"
It is a longer walk to the next, but Jo, relieved of his firstsuspicions, sticks to the forms imposed upon him and does not lookround. By many devious ways, reeking with offence of many kinds, theycome to the little tunnel of a court, and to the gas-lamp (lightednow), and to the iron gate.
"He was put there," says Jo, holding to the bars and looking in.
"Where? Oh, what a scene of horror!"
"There!" says Jo, pointing. "Over yinder. Among them piles of bones,and close to that there kitchin winder! They put him wery nigh thetop. They was obliged to stamp upon it to git it in. I could unkiverit for you with my broom if the gate was open. That's why they locksit, I s'pose," giving it a shake. "It's always locked. Look at therat!" cries Jo, excited. "Hi! Look! There he goes! Ho! Into theground!"
The servant shrinks into a corner, into a corner of that hideousarchway, with its deadly stains contaminating her dress; and puttingout her two hands and passionately telling him to keep away from her,for he is loathsome to her, so remains for some moments. Jo standsstaring and is still staring when she recovers herself.
"Is this place of abomination consecrated ground?"
"I don't know nothink of consequential ground," says Jo, stillstaring.
"Is it blessed?"
"Which?" says Jo, in the last degree amazed.
"Is it blessed?"
"I'm blest if I know," says Jo, staring more than ever; "but Ishouldn't think it warn't. Blest?" repeats Jo, something troubled inhis mind. "It an't done it much good if it is. Blest? I should thinkit was t'othered myself. But I don't know nothink!"
The servant takes as little heed of what he says as she seems to takeof what she has said herself. She draws off her glove to get somemoney from her purse. Jo silently notices how white and small herhand is and what a jolly servant she must be to wear such sparklingrings.
She drops a piece of money in his hand without touching it, andshuddering as their hands approach. "Now," she adds, "show me thespot again!"
Jo thrusts the handle of his broom between the bars of the gate, andwith his utmost power of elaboration, points it out. At length,looking aside to see if he has made himself intelligible, he findsthat he is alone.
His first proceeding is to hold the piece of money to the gas-lightand to be overpowered at finding that it is yellow--gold. His next isto give it a one-sided bite at the edge as a test of its quality.His next, to put it in his mouth for safety and to sweep thestep and passage with great care. His job done, he sets off forTom-all-Alone's, stopping in the light of innumerable gas-lamps toproduce the piece of gold and give it another one-sided bite as areassurance of its being genuine.
The Mercury in powder is in no want of society to-night, for my Ladygoes to a grand dinner and three or four balls. Sir Leicester isfidgety down at Chesney Wold, with no better company than the gout;he complains to Mrs. Rouncewell that the rain makes such a monotonouspattering on the terrace that he can't read the paper even by thefireside in his own snug dressing-room.
"Sir Leicester would have done better to try the other side of thehouse, my dear," says Mrs. Rouncewell to Rosa. "His dressing-room ison my Lady's side. And in all these years I never heard the step uponthe Ghost's Walk more distinct than it is to-night!"



CHAPTER XVII
Esther's Narrative

Richard very often came to see us while we remained in London (thoughhe soon failed in his letter-writing), and with his quick abilities,his good spirits, his good temper, his gaiety and freshness, wasalways delightful. But though I liked him more and more the better Iknew him, I still felt more and more how much it was to be regrettedthat he had been educated in no habits of application andconcentration. The system which had addressed him in exactly the samemanner as it had addressed hundreds of other boys, all varying incharacter and capacity, had enabled him to dash through his tasks,always with fair credit and often with distinction, but in a fitful,dazzling way that had confirmed his reliance on those very qualitiesin himself which it had been most desirable to direct and train. Theywere good qualities, without which no high place can be meritoriouslywon, but like fire and water, though excellent servants, they werevery bad masters. If they had been under Richard's direction, theywould have been his friends; but Richard being under their direction,they became his enemies.
I write down these opinions not because I believe that this or anyother thing was so because I thought so, but only because I did thinkso and I want to be quite candid about all I thought and did. Thesewere my thoughts about Richard. I thought I often observed besideshow right my guardian was in what he had said, and that theuncertainties and delays of the Chancery suit had imparted to hisnature something of the careless spirit of a gamester who felt thathe was part of a great gaming system.
Mr. and Mrs. Bayham Badger coming one afternoon when my guardian wasnot at home, in the course of conversation I naturally inquired afterRichard.
"Why, Mr. Carstone," said Mrs. Badger, "is very well and is, I assureyou, a great acquisition to our society. Captain Swosser used to sayof me that I was always better than land a-head and a breeze a-starnto the midshipmen's mess when the purser's junk had become as toughas the fore-topsel weather earings. It was his naval way ofmentioning generally that I was an acquisition to any society. I mayrender the same tribute, I am sure, to Mr. Carstone. But I--you won'tthink me premature if I mention it?"
I said no, as Mrs. Badger's insinuating tone seemed to require suchan answer.
"Nor Miss Clare?" said Mrs. Bayham Badger sweetly.
Ada said no, too, and looked uneasy.
"Why, you see, my dears," said Mrs. Badger, "--you'll excuse mecalling you my dears?"
We entreated Mrs. Badger not to mention it.
"Because you really are, if I may take the liberty of saying so,"pursued Mrs. Badger, "so perfectly charming. You see, my dears, thatalthough I am still young--or Mr. Bayham Badger pays me thecompliment of saying so--"
"No," Mr. Badger called out like some one contradicting at a publicmeeting. "Not at all!"
"Very well," smiled Mrs. Badger, "we will say still young."
"Undoubtedly," said Mr. Badger.
"My dears, though still young, I have had many opportunities ofobserving young men. There were many such on board the dear oldCrippler, I assure you. After that, when I was with Captain Swosserin the Mediterranean, I embraced every opportunity of knowing andbefriending the midshipmen under Captain Swosser's command. YOU neverheard them called the young gentlemen, my dears, and probably wouldnot understand allusions to their pipe-claying their weekly accounts,but it is otherwise with me, for blue water has been a second home tome, and I have been quite a sailor. Again, with Professor Dingo."
"A man of European reputation," murmured Mr. Badger.
"When I lost my dear first and became the wife of my dear second,"said Mrs. Badger, speaking of her former husbands as if they wereparts of a charade, "I still enjoyed opportunities of observingyouth. The class attendant on Professor Dingo's lectures was a largeone, and it became my pride, as the wife of an eminent scientific manseeking herself in science the utmost consolation it could impart, tothrow our house open to the students as a kind of ScientificExchange. Every Tuesday evening there was lemonade and a mixedbiscuit for all who chose to partake of those refreshments. And therewas science to an unlimited extent."
"Remarkable assemblies those, Miss Summerson," said Mr. Badgerreverentially. "There must have been great intellectual frictiongoing on there under the auspices of such a man!"
"And now," pursued Mrs. Badger, "now that I am the wife of my dearthird, Mr. Badger, I still pursue those habits of observation whichwere formed during the lifetime of Captain Swosser and adapted to newand unexpected purposes during the lifetime of Professor Dingo. Itherefore have not come to the consideration of Mr. Carstone as aneophyte. And yet I am very much of the opinion, my dears, that hehas not chosen his profession advisedly."
Ada looked so very anxious now that I asked Mrs. Badger on what shefounded her supposition.
"My dear Miss Summerson," she replied, "on Mr. Carstone's characterand conduct. He is of such a very easy disposition that probably hewould never think it worth-while to mention how he really feels, buthe feels languid about the profession. He has not that positiveinterest in it which makes it his vocation. If he has any decidedimpression in reference to it, I should say it was that it is atiresome pursuit. Now, this is not promising. Young men like Mr.Allan Woodcourt who take it from a strong interest in all that it cando will find some reward in it through a great deal of work for avery little money and through years of considerable endurance anddisappointment. But I am quite convinced that this would never be thecase with Mr. Carstone."
"Does Mr. Badger think so too?" asked Ada timidly.
"Why," said Mr. Badger, "to tell the truth, Miss Clare, this view ofthe matter had not occurred to me until Mrs. Badger mentioned it. Butwhen Mrs. Badger put it in that light, I naturally gave greatconsideration to it, knowing that Mrs. Badger's mind, in addition toits natural advantages, has had the rare advantage of being formed bytwo such very distinguished (I will even say illustrious) public menas Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy and Professor Dingo. Theconclusion at which I have arrived is--in short, is Mrs. Badger'sconclusion."
"It was a maxim of Captain Swosser's," said Mrs. Badger, "speaking inhis figurative naval manner, that when you make pitch hot, you cannotmake it too hot; and that if you only have to swab a plank, youshould swab it as if Davy Jones were after you. It appears to me thatthis maxim is applicable to the medical as well as to the nauticalprofession.
"To all professions," observed Mr. Badger. "It was admirably said byCaptain Swosser. Beautifully said."
"People objected to Professor Dingo when we were staying in the northof Devon after our marriage," said Mrs. Badger, "that he disfiguredsome of the houses and other buildings by chipping off fragments ofthose edifices with his little geological hammer. But the professorreplied that he knew of no building save the Temple of Science. Theprinciple is the same, I think?"
"Precisely the same," said Mr. Badger. "Finely expressed! Theprofessor made the same remark, Miss Summerson, in his last illness,when (his mind wandering) he insisted on keeping his little hammerunder the pillow and chipping at the countenances of the attendants.The ruling passion!"
Although we could have dispensed with the length at which Mr. andMrs. Badger pursued the conversation, we both felt that it wasdisinterested in them to express the opinion they had communicated tous and that there was a great probability of its being sound. Weagreed to say nothing to Mr. Jarndyce until we had spoken to Richard;and as he was coming next evening, we resolved to have a very serioustalk with him.
So after he had been a little while with Ada, I went in and found mydarling (as I knew she would be) prepared to consider him thoroughlyright in whatever he said.
"And how do you get on, Richard?" said I. I always sat down on theother side of him. He made quite a sister of me.
"Oh! Well enough!" said Richard.
"He can't say better than that, Esther, can he?" cried my pettriumphantly.
I tried to look at my pet in the wisest manner, but of course Icouldn't.
"Well enough?" I repeated.
"Yes," said Richard, "well enough. It's rather jog-trotty andhumdrum. But it'll do as well as anything else!"
"Oh! My dear Richard!" I remonstrated.
"What's the matter?" said Richard.
"Do as well as anything else!"
"I don't think there's any harm in that, Dame Durden," said Ada,looking so confidingly at me across him; "because if it will do aswell as anything else, it will do very well, I hope."
"Oh, yes, I hope so," returned Richard, carelessly tossing his hairfrom his forehead. "After all, it may be only a kind of probationtill our suit is--I forgot though. I am not to mention the suit.Forbidden ground! Oh, yes, it's all right enough. Let us talk aboutsomething else."
Ada would have done so willingly, and with a full persuasion that wehad brought the question to a most satisfactory state. But I thoughtit would be useless to stop there, so I began again.
"No, but Richard," said I, "and my dear Ada! Consider how importantit is to you both, and what a point of honour it is towards yourcousin, that you, Richard, should be quite in earnest without anyreservation. I think we had better talk about this, really, Ada. Itwill be too late very soon."
"Oh, yes! We must talk about it!" said Ada. "But I think Richard isright."
What was the use of my trying to look wise when she was so pretty,and so engaging, and so fond of him!
"Mr. and Mrs. Badger were here yesterday, Richard," said I, "and theyseemed disposed to think that you had no great liking for theprofession."
"Did they though?" said Richard. "Oh! Well, that rather alters thecase, because I had no idea that they thought so, and I should nothave liked to disappoint or inconvenience them. The fact is, I don'tcare much about it. But, oh, it don't matter! It'll do as well asanything else!"
"You hear him, Ada!" said I.
"The fact is," Richard proceeded, half thoughtfully and halfjocosely, "it is not quite in my way. I don't take to it. And I gettoo much of Mrs. Bayham Badger's first and second."
"I am sure THAT'S very natural!" cried Ada, quite delighted. "Thevery thing we both said yesterday, Esther!"
"Then," pursued Richard, "it's monotonous, and to-day is too likeyesterday, and to-morrow is too like to-day."
"But I am afraid," said I, "this is an objection to all kinds ofapplication--to life itself, except under some very uncommoncircumstances."
"Do you think so?" returned Richard, still considering. "Perhaps! Ha!Why, then, you know," he added, suddenly becoming gay again, "wetravel outside a circle to what I said just now. It'll do as well asanything else. Oh, it's all right enough! Let us talk about somethingelse."
But even Ada, with her loving face--and if it had seemed innocent andtrusting when I first saw it in that memorable November fog, how muchmore did it seem now when I knew her innocent and trustingheart--even Ada shook her head at this and looked serious. So Ithought it a good opportunity to hint to Richard that if he weresometimes a little careless of himself, I was very sure he nevermeant to be careless of Ada, and that it was a part of hisaffectionate consideration for her not to slight the importance of astep that might influence both their lives. This made him almostgrave.
"My dear Mother Hubbard," he said, "that's the very thing! I havethought of that several times and have been quite angry with myselffor meaning to be so much in earnest and--somehow--not exactly beingso. I don't know how it is; I seem to want something or other tostand by. Even you have no idea how fond I am of Ada (my darlingcousin, I love you, so much!), but I don't settle down to constancyin other things. It's such uphill work, and it takes such a time!"said Richard with an air of vexation.
"That may be," I suggested, "because you don't like what you havechosen."
"Poor fellow!" said Ada. "I am sure I don't wonder at it!"
No. It was not of the least use my trying to look wise. I triedagain, but how could I do it, or how could it have any effect if Icould, while Ada rested her clasped hands upon his shoulder and whilehe looked at her tender blue eyes, and while they looked at him!
"You see, my precious girl," said Richard, passing her golden curlsthrough and through his hand, "I was a little hasty perhaps; or Imisunderstood my own inclinations perhaps. They don't seem to lie inthat direction. I couldn't tell till I tried. Now the question iswhether it's worth-while to undo all that has been done. It seemslike making a great disturbance about nothing particular."
"My dear Richard," said I, "how CAN you say about nothingparticular?"
"I don't mean absolutely that," he returned. "I mean that it MAY benothing particular because I may never want it."
Both Ada and I urged, in reply, not only that it was decidedlyworth-while to undo what had been done, but that it must be undone. Ithen asked Richard whether he had thought of any more congenialpursuit.
"There, my dear Mrs. Shipton," said Richard, "you touch me home. Yes,I have. I have been thinking that the law is the boy for me."
"The law!" repeated Ada as if she were afraid of the name.
"If I went into Kenge's office," said Richard, "and if I were placedunder articles to Kenge, I should have my eye on the--hum!--theforbidden ground--and should be able to study it, and master it, andto satisfy myself that it was not neglected and was being properlyconducted. I should be able to look after Ada's interests and my owninterests (the same thing!); and I should peg away at Blackstone andall those fellows with the most tremendous ardour."
I was not by any means so sure of that, and I saw how his hankeringafter the vague things yet to come of those long-deferred hopes casta shade on Ada's face. But I thought it best to encourage him in anyproject of continuous exertion, and only advised him to be quite surethat his mind was made up now.
"My dear Minerva," said Richard, "I am as steady as you are. I made amistake; we are all liable to mistakes; I won't do so any more, andI'll become such a lawyer as is not often seen. That is, you know,"said Richard, relapsing into doubt, "if it really is worth-while,after all, to make such a disturbance about nothing particular!"
This led to our saying again, with a great deal of gravity, all thatwe had said already and to our coming to much the same conclusionafterwards. But we so strongly advised Richard to be frank and openwith Mr. Jarndyce, without a moment's delay, and his disposition wasnaturally so opposed to concealment that he sought him out at once(taking us with him) and made a full avowal. "Rick," said myguardian, after hearing him attentively, "we can retreat with honour,and we will. But we must be careful--for our cousin's sake, Rick, forour cousin's sake--that we make no more such mistakes. Therefore, inthe matter of the law, we will have a good trial before we decide. Wewill look before we leap, and take plenty of time about it."
Richard's energy was of such an impatient and fitful kind that hewould have liked nothing better than to have gone to Mr. Kenge'soffice in that hour and to have entered into articles with him on thespot. Submitting, however, with a good grace to the caution that wehad shown to be so necessary, he contented himself with sitting downamong us in his lightest spirits and talking as if his one unvaryingpurpose in life from childhood had been that one which now heldpossession of him. My guardian was very kind and cordial with him,but rather grave, enough so to cause Ada, when he had departed and wewere going upstairs to bed, to say, "Cousin John, I hope you don'tthink the worse of Richard?"
"No, my love," said he.
"Because it was very natural that Richard should be mistaken in sucha difficult case. It is not uncommon."
"No, no, my love," said he. "Don't look unhappy."
"Oh, I am not unhappy, cousin John!" said Ada, smiling cheerfully,with her hand upon his shoulder, where she had put it in bidding himgood night. "But I should be a little so if you thought at all theworse of Richard."
"My dear," said Mr. Jarndyce, "I should think the worse of him onlyif you were ever in the least unhappy through his means. I should bemore disposed to quarrel with myself even then, than with poor Rick,for I brought you together. But, tut, all this is nothing! He hastime before him, and the race to run. I think the worse of him? NotI, my loving cousin! And not you, I swear!"
"No, indeed, cousin John," said Ada, "I am sure I could not--I amsure I would not--think any ill of Richard if the whole world did. Icould, and I would, think better of him then than at any other time!"
So quietly and honestly she said it, with her hands upon hisshoulders--both hands now--and looking up into his face, like thepicture of truth!
"I think," said my guardian, thoughtfully regarding her, "I think itmust be somewhere written that the virtues of the mothers shalloccasionally be visited on the children, as well as the sins of thefather. Good night, my rosebud. Good night, little woman. Pleasantslumbers! Happy dreams!"
This was the first time I ever saw him follow Ada with his eyes withsomething of a shadow on their benevolent expression. I wellremembered the look with which he had contemplated her and Richardwhen she was singing in the firelight; it was but a very little whilesince he had watched them passing down the room in which the sun wasshining, and away into the shade; but his glance was changed, andeven the silent look of confidence in me which now followed it oncemore was not quite so hopeful and untroubled as it had originallybeen.
Ada praised Richard more to me that night than ever she had praisedhim yet. She went to sleep with a little bracelet he had given herclasped upon her arm. I fancied she was dreaming of him when I kissedher cheek after she had slept an hour and saw how tranquil and happyshe looked.
For I was so little inclined to sleep myself that night that I sat upworking. It would not be worth mentioning for its own sake, but I waswakeful and rather low-spirited. I don't know why. At least I don'tthink I know why. At least, perhaps I do, but I don't think itmatters.
At any rate, I made up my mind to be so dreadfully industrious that Iwould leave myself not a moment's leisure to be low-spirited. For Inaturally said, "Esther! You to be low-spirited. YOU!" And it reallywas time to say so, for I--yes, I really did see myself in the glass,almost crying. "As if you had anything to make you unhappy, insteadof everything to make you happy, you ungrateful heart!" said I.
If I could have made myself go to sleep, I would have done itdirectly, but not being able to do that, I took out of my basket someornamental work for our house (I mean Bleak House) that I was busywith at that time and sat down to it with great determination. It wasnecessary to count all the stitches in that work, and I resolved togo on with it until I couldn't keep my eyes open, and then to go tobed.
I soon found myself very busy. But I had left some silk downstairs ina work-table drawer in the temporary growlery, and coming to a stopfor want of it, I took my candle and went softly down to get it. Tomy great surprise, on going in I found my guardian still there, andsitting looking at the ashes. He was lost in thought, his book layunheeded by his side, his silvered iron-grey hair was scatteredconfusedly upon his forehead as though his hand had been wanderingamong it while his thoughts were elsewhere, and his face looked worn.Almost frightened by coming upon him so unexpectedly, I stood stillfor a moment and should have retired without speaking had he not, inagain passing his hand abstractedly through his hair, seen me andstarted.
"Esther!"
I told him what I had come for.
"At work so late, my dear?"
"I am working late to-night," said I, "because I couldn't sleep andwished to tire myself. But, dear guardian, you are late too, and lookweary. You have no trouble, I hope, to keep you waking?"
"None, little woman, that YOU would readily understand," said he.
He spoke in a regretful tone so new to me that I inwardly repeated,as if that would help me to his meaning, "That I could readilyunderstand!"
"Remain a moment, Esther," said he, "You were in my thoughts."
"I hope I was not the trouble, guardian?"
He slightly waved his hand and fell into his usual manner. The changewas so remarkable, and he appeared to make it by dint of so muchself-command, that I found myself again inwardly repeating, "Nonethat I could understand!"
"Little woman," said my guardian, "I was thinking--that is, I havebeen thinking since I have been sitting here--that you ought to knowof your own history all I know. It is very little. Next to nothing."
"Dear guardian," I replied, "when you spoke to me before on thatsubject--"
"But since then," he gravely interposed, anticipating what I meant tosay, "I have reflected that your having anything to ask me, and myhaving anything to tell you, are different considerations, Esther. Itis perhaps my duty to impart to you the little I know."
"If you think so, guardian, it is right."
"I think so," he returned very gently, and kindly, and verydistinctly. "My dear, I think so now. If any real disadvantage canattach to your position in the mind of any man or woman worth athought, it is right that you at least of all the world should notmagnify it to yourself by having vague impressions of its nature."
I sat down and said after a little effort to be as calm as I ought tobe, "One of my earliest remembrances, guardian, is of these words:'Your mother, Esther, is your disgrace, and you were hers. The timewill come, and soon enough, when you will understand this better, andwill feel it too, as no one save a woman can.'" I had covered my facewith my hands in repeating the words, but I took them away now with abetter kind of shame, I hope, and told him that to him I owed theblessing that I had from my childhood to that hour never, never,never felt it. He put up his hand as if to stop me. I well knew thathe was never to be thanked, and said no more.
"Nine years, my dear," he said after thinking for a little while,"have passed since I received a letter from a lady living inseclusion, written with a stern passion and power that rendered itunlike all other letters I have ever read. It was written to me (asit told me in so many words), perhaps because it was the writer'sidiosyncrasy to put that trust in me, perhaps because it was mine tojustify it. It told me of a child, an orphan girl then twelve yearsold, in some such cruel words as those which live in yourremembrance. It told me that the writer had bred her in secrecy fromher birth, had blotted out all trace of her existence, and that ifthe writer were to die before the child became a woman, she would beleft entirely friendless, nameless, and unknown. It asked me toconsider if I would, in that case, finish what the writer had begun."
I listened in silence and looked attentively at him.
"Your early recollection, my dear, will supply the gloomy mediumthrough which all this was seen and expressed by the writer, and thedistorted religion which clouded her mind with impressions of theneed there was for the child to expiate an offence of which she wasquite innocent. I felt concerned for the little creature, in herdarkened life, and replied to the letter."
I took his hand and kissed it.
"It laid the injunction on me that I should never propose to see thewriter, who had long been estranged from all intercourse with theworld, but who would see a confidential agent if I would appoint one.I accredited Mr. Kenge. The lady said, of her own accord and not ofhis seeking, that her name was an assumed one. That she was, if therewere any ties of blood in such a case, the child's aunt. That morethan this she would never (and he was well persuaded of thesteadfastness of her resolution) for any human considerationdisclose. My dear, I have told you all."
I held his hand for a little while in mine.
"I saw my ward oftener than she saw me," he added, cheerily makinglight of it, "and I always knew she was beloved, useful, and happy.She repays me twenty-thousandfold, and twenty more to that, everyhour in every day!"
"And oftener still," said I, "she blesses the guardian who is afather to her!"
At the word father, I saw his former trouble come into his face. Hesubdued it as before, and it was gone in an instant; but it had beenthere and it had come so swiftly upon my words that I felt as if theyhad given him a shock. I again inwardly repeated, wondering, "That Icould readily understand. None that I could readily understand!" No,it was true. I did not understand it. Not for many and many a day.
"Take a fatherly good night, my dear," said he, kissing me on theforehead, "and so to rest. These are late hours for working andthinking. You do that for all of us, all day long, littlehousekeeper!"
I neither worked nor thought any more that night. I opened mygrateful heart to heaven in thankfulness for its providence to me andits care of me, and fell asleep.
We had a visitor next day. Mr. Allan Woodcourt came. He came to takeleave of us; he had settled to do so beforehand. He was going toChina and to India as a surgeon on board ship. He was to be away along, long time.
I believe--at least I know--that he was not rich. All his widowedmother could spare had been spent in qualifying him for hisprofession. It was not lucrative to a young practitioner, with verylittle influence in London; and although he was, night and day, atthe service of numbers of poor people and did wonders of gentlenessand skill for them, he gained very little by it in money. He wasseven years older than I. Not that I need mention it, for it hardlyseems to belong to anything.
I think--I mean, he told us--that he had been in practice three orfour years and that if he could have hoped to contend through threeor four more, he would not have made the voyage on which he wasbound. But he had no fortune or private means, and so he was goingaway. He had been to see us several times altogether. We thought it apity he should go away. Because he was distinguished in his art amongthose who knew it best, and some of the greatest men belonging to ithad a high opinion of him.
When he came to bid us good-bye, he brought his mother with him forthe first time. She was a pretty old lady, with bright black eyes,but she seemed proud. She came from Wales and had had, a long timeago, an eminent person for an ancestor, of the name of Morganap-Kerrig--of some place that sounded like Gimlet--who was the mostillustrious person that ever was known and all of whose relationswere a sort of royal family. He appeared to have passed his lifein always getting up into mountains and fighting somebody; anda bard whose name sounded like Crumlinwallinwer had sung hispraises in a piece which was called, as nearly as I could catch it,Mewlinnwillinwodd.
Mrs. Woodcourt, after expatiating to us on the fame of her greatkinsman, said that no doubt wherever her son Allan went he wouldremember his pedigree and would on no account form an alliance belowit. She told him that there were many handsome English ladies inIndia who went out on speculation, and that there were some to bepicked up with property, but that neither charms nor wealth wouldsuffice for the descendant from such a line without birth, which mustever be the first consideration. She talked so much about birth thatfor a moment I half fancied, and with pain--But what an idle fancy tosuppose that she could think or care what MINE was!
Mr. Woodcourt seemed a little distressed by her prolixity, but he wastoo considerate to let her see it and contrived delicately to bringthe conversation round to making his acknowledgments to my guardianfor his hospitality and for the very happy hours--he called them thevery happy hours--he had passed with us. The recollection of them, hesaid, would go with him wherever he went and would be alwaystreasured. And so we gave him our hands, one after another--at least,they did--and I did; and so he put his lips to Ada's hand--and tomine; and so he went away upon his long, long voyage!
I was very busy indeed all day and wrote directions home to theservants, and wrote notes for my guardian, and dusted his books andpapers, and jingled my housekeeping keys a good deal, one way andanother. I was still busy between the lights, singing and working bythe window, when who should come in but Caddy, whom I had noexpectation of seeing!
"Why, Caddy, my dear," said I, "what beautiful flowers!"
She had such an exquisite little nosegay in her hand.
"Indeed, I think so, Esther," replied Caddy. "They are the loveliestI ever saw."
"Prince, my dear?" said I in a whisper.
"No," answered Caddy, shaking her head and holding them to me tosmell. "Not Prince."
"Well, to be sure, Caddy!" said I. "You must have two lovers!"
"What? Do they look like that sort of thing?" said Caddy.
"Do they look like that sort of thing?" I repeated, pinching hercheek.
Caddy only laughed in return, and telling me that she had come forhalf an hour, at the expiration of which time Prince would be waitingfor her at the corner, sat chatting with me and Ada in the window,every now and then handing me the flowers again or trying how theylooked against my hair. At last, when she was going, she took me intomy room and put them in my dress.
"For me?" said I, surprised.
"For you," said Caddy with a kiss. "They were left behind bysomebody."
"Left behind?"
"At poor Miss Flite's," said Caddy. "Somebody who has been very goodto her was hurrying away an hour ago to join a ship and left theseflowers behind. No, no! Don't take them out. Let the pretty littlethings lie here," said Caddy, adjusting them with a careful hand,"because I was present myself, and I shouldn't wonder if somebodyleft them on purpose!"
"Do they look like that sort of thing?" said Ada, coming laughinglybehind me and clasping me merrily round the waist. "Oh, yes, indeedthey do, Dame Durden! They look very, very like that sort of thing.Oh, very like it indeed, my dear!"



CHAPTER XVIII
Lady Dedlock

It was not so easy as it had appeared at first to arrange forRichard's making a trial of Mr. Kenge's office. Richard himself wasthe chief impediment. As soon as he had it in his power to leave Mr.Badger at any moment, he began to doubt whether he wanted to leavehim at all. He didn't know, he said, really. It wasn't a badprofession; he couldn't assert that he disliked it; perhaps he likedit as well as he liked any other--suppose he gave it one more chance!Upon that, he shut himself up for a few weeks with some books andsome bones and seemed to acquire a considerable fund of informationwith great rapidity. His fervour, after lasting about a month, beganto cool, and when it was quite cooled, began to grow warm again. Hisvacillations between law and medicine lasted so long that midsummerarrived before he finally separated from Mr. Badger and entered on anexperimental course of Messrs. Kenge and Carboy. For all hiswaywardness, he took great credit to himself as being determined tobe in earnest "this time." And he was so good-natured throughout, andin such high spirits, and so fond of Ada, that it was very difficultindeed to be otherwise than pleased with him.
"As to Mr. Jarndyce," who, I may mention, found the wind much given,during this period, to stick in the east; "As to Mr. Jarndyce,"Richard would say to me, "he is the finest fellow in the world,Esther! I must be particularly careful, if it were only for hissatisfaction, to take myself well to task and have a regular wind-upof this business now."
The idea of his taking himself well to task, with that laughing faceand heedless manner and with a fancy that everything could catch andnothing could hold, was ludicrously anomalous. However, he told usbetween-whiles that he was doing it to such an extent that hewondered his hair didn't turn grey. His regular wind-up of thebusiness was (as I have said) that he went to Mr. Kenge's aboutmidsummer to try how he liked it.
All this time he was, in money affairs, what I have described him ina former illustration--generous, profuse, wildly careless, but fullypersuaded that he was rather calculating and prudent. I happened tosay to Ada, in his presence, half jestingly, half seriously, aboutthe time of his going to Mr. Kenge's, that he needed to haveFortunatus' purse, he made so light of money, which he answered inthis way, "My jewel of a dear cousin, you hear this old woman! Whydoes she say that? Because I gave eight pounds odd (or whatever itwas) for a certain neat waistcoat and buttons a few days ago. Now, ifI had stayed at Badger's I should have been obliged to spend twelvepounds at a blow for some heart-breaking lecture-fees. So I make fourpounds--in a lump--by the transaction!"
It was a question much discussed between him and my guardian whatarrangements should be made for his living in London while heexperimented on the law, for we had long since gone back to BleakHouse, and it was too far off to admit of his coming there oftenerthan once a week. My guardian told me that if Richard were to settledown at Mr. Kenge's he would take some apartments or chambers wherewe too could occasionally stay for a few days at a time; "but, littlewoman," he added, rubbing his head very significantly, "he hasn'tsettled down there yet!" The discussions ended in our hiring for him,by the month, a neat little furnished lodging in a quiet old housenear Queen Square. He immediately began to spend all the money he hadin buying the oddest little ornaments and luxuries for this lodging;and so often as Ada and I dissuaded him from making any purchase thathe had in contemplation which was particularly unnecessary andexpensive, he took credit for what it would have cost and made outthat to spend anything less on something else was to save thedifference.
While these affairs were in abeyance, our visit to Mr. Boythorn's waspostponed. At length, Richard having taken possession of his lodging,there was nothing to prevent our departure. He could have gone withus at that time of the year very well, but he was in the full noveltyof his new position and was making most energetic attempts to unravelthe mysteries of the fatal suit. Consequently we went without him,and my darling was delighted to praise him for being so busy.
We made a pleasant journey down into Lincolnshire by the coach andhad an entertaining companion in Mr. Skimpole. His furniture had beenall cleared off, it appeared, by the person who took possession of iton his blue-eyed daughter's birthday, but he seemed quite relieved tothink that it was gone. Chairs and table, he said, were wearisomeobjects; they were monotonous ideas, they had no variety ofexpression, they looked you out of countenance, and you looked themout of countenance. How pleasant, then, to be bound to no particularchairs and tables, but to sport like a butterfly among all thefurniture on hire, and to flit from rosewood to mahogany, and frommahogany to walnut, and from this shape to that, as the humour tookone!
"The oddity of the thing is," said Mr. Skimpole with a quickenedsense of the ludicrous, "that my chairs and tables were not paid for,and yet my landlord walks off with them as composedly as possible.Now, that seems droll! There is something grotesque in it. The chairand table merchant never engaged to pay my landlord my rent. Whyshould my landlord quarrel with HIM? If I have a pimple on my nosewhich is disagreeable to my landlord's peculiar ideas of beauty, mylandlord has no business to scratch my chair and table merchant'snose, which has no pimple on it. His reasoning seems defective!"
"Well," said my guardian good-humouredly, "it's pretty clear thatwhoever became security for those chairs and tables will have to payfor them."
"Exactly!" returned Mr. Skimpole. "That's the crowning point ofunreason in the business! I said to my landlord, 'My good man, youare not aware that my excellent friend Jarndyce will have to pay forthose things that you are sweeping off in that indelicate manner.Have you no consideration for HIS property?' He hadn't the least."
"And refused all proposals," said my guardian.
"Refused all proposals," returned Mr. Skimpole. "I made him businessproposals. I had him into my room. I said, 'You are a man ofbusiness, I believe?' He replied, 'I am,' 'Very well,' said I, 'nowlet us be business-like. Here is an inkstand, here are pens andpaper, here are wafers. What do you want? I have occupied your housefor a considerable period, I believe to our mutual satisfaction untilthis unpleasant misunderstanding arose; let us be at once friendlyand business-like. What do you want?' In reply to this, he made useof the figurative expression--which has something Eastern aboutit--that he had never seen the colour of my money. 'My amiablefriend,' said I, 'I never have any money. I never know anything aboutmoney.' 'Well, sir,' said he, 'what do you offer if I give you time?''My good fellow,' said I, 'I have no idea of time; but you say youare a man of business, and whatever you can suggest to be done in abusiness-like way with pen, and ink, and paper--and wafers--I amready to do. Don't pay yourself at another man's expense (which isfoolish), but be business-like!' However, he wouldn't be, and therewas an end of it."
If these were some of the inconveniences of Mr. Skimpole's childhood,it assuredly possessed its advantages too. On the journey he had avery good appetite for such refreshment as came in our way (includinga basket of choice hothouse peaches), but never thought of paying foranything. So when the coachman came round for his fee, he pleasantlyasked him what he considered a very good fee indeed, now--a liberalone--and on his replying half a crown for a single passenger, said itwas little enough too, all things considered, and left Mr. Jarndyceto give it him.
It was delightful weather. The green corn waved so beautifully, thelarks sang so joyfully, the hedges were so full of wild flowers, thetrees were so thickly out in leaf, the bean-fields, with a light windblowing over them, filled the air with such a delicious fragrance!Late in the afternoon we came to the market-town where we were toalight from the coach--a dull little town with a church-spire, and amarketplace, and a market-cross, and one intensely sunny street, anda pond with an old horse cooling his legs in it, and a very few mensleepily lying and standing about in narrow little bits of shade.After the rustling of the leaves and the waving of the corn all alongthe road, it looked as still, as hot, as motionless a little town asEngland could produce.
At the inn we found Mr. Boythorn on horseback, waiting with an opencarriage to take us to his house, which was a few miles off. He wasoverjoyed to see us and dismounted with great alacrity.
"By heaven!" said he after giving us a courteous greeting. "This amost infamous coach. It is the most flagrant example of an abominablepublic vehicle that ever encumbered the face of the earth. It istwenty-five minutes after its time this afternoon. The coachman oughtto be put to death!"
"IS he after his time?" said Mr. Skimpole, to whom he happened toaddress himself. "You know my infirmity."
"Twenty-five minutes! Twenty-six minutes!" replied Mr. Boythorn,referring to his watch. "With two ladies in the coach, this scoundrelhas deliberately delayed his arrival six and twenty minutes.Deliberately! It is impossible that it can be accidental! But hisfather--and his uncle--were the most profligate coachmen that eversat upon a box."
While he said this in tones of the greatest indignation, he handed usinto the little phaeton with the utmost gentleness and was all smilesand pleasure.
"I am sorry, ladies," he said, standing bare-headed at thecarriage-door when all was ready, "that I am obliged to conduct younearly two miles out of the way. But our direct road lies through SirLeicester Dedlock's park, and in that fellow's property I have swornnever to set foot of mine, or horse's foot of mine, pending thepresent relations between us, while I breathe the breath of life!"And here, catching my guardian's eye, he broke into one of histremendous laughs, which seemed to shake even the motionless littlemarket-town.
"Are the Dedlocks down here, Lawrence?" said my guardian as we drovealong and Mr. Boythorn trotted on the green turf by the roadside.
"Sir Arrogant Numskull is here," replied Mr. Boythorn. "Ha ha ha! SirArrogant is here, and I am glad to say, has been laid by the heelshere. My Lady," in naming whom he always made a courtly gesture as ifparticularly to exclude her from any part in the quarrel, "isexpected, I believe, daily. I am not in the least surprised that shepostpones her appearance as long as possible. Whatever can haveinduced that transcendent woman to marry that effigy and figure-headof a baronet is one of the most impenetrable mysteries that everbaffled human inquiry. Ha ha ha ha!"
"I suppose," said my guardian, laughing, "WE may set foot in the parkwhile we are here? The prohibition does not extend to us, does it?"
"I can lay no prohibition on my guests," he said, bending his head toAda and me with the smiling politeness which sat so gracefully uponhim, "except in the matter of their departure. I am only sorry that Icannot have the happiness of being their escort about Chesney Wold,which is a very fine place! But by the light of this summer day,Jarndyce, if you call upon the owner while you stay with me, you arelikely to have but a cool reception. He carries himself like aneight-day clock at all times, like one of a race of eight-day clocksin gorgeous cases that never go and never went--Ha ha ha!--but hewill have some extra stiffness, I can promise you, for the friends ofhis friend and neighbour Boythorn!"
"I shall not put him to the proof," said my guardian. "He is asindifferent to the honour of knowing me, I dare say, as I am to thehonour of knowing him. The air of the grounds and perhaps such a viewof the house as any other sightseer might get are quite enough forme."
"Well!" said Mr. Boythorn. "I am glad of it on the whole. It's inbetter keeping. I am looked upon about here as a second Ajax defyingthe lightning. Ha ha ha ha! When I go into our little church on aSunday, a considerable part of the inconsiderable congregation expectto see me drop, scorched and withered, on the pavement under theDedlock displeasure. Ha ha ha ha! I have no doubt he is surprisedthat I don't. For he is, by heaven, the most self-satisfied, and theshallowest, and the most coxcombical and utterly brainless ass!"
Our coming to the ridge of a hill we had been ascending enabled ourfriend to point out Chesney Wold itself to us and diverted hisattention from its master.
It was a picturesque old house in a fine park richly wooded. Amongthe trees and not far from the residence he pointed out the spire ofthe little church of which he had spoken. Oh, the solemn woods overwhich the light and shadow travelled swiftly, as if heavenly wingswere sweeping on benignant errands through the summer air; the smoothgreen slopes, the glittering water, the garden where the flowers wereso symmetrically arranged in clusters of the richest colours, howbeautiful they looked! The house, with gable and chimney, and tower,and turret, and dark doorway, and broad terrace-walk, twining amongthe balustrades of which, and lying heaped upon the vases, there wasone great flush of roses, seemed scarcely real in its light solidityand in the serene and peaceful hush that rested on all around it. ToAda and to me, that above all appeared the pervading influence. Oneverything, house, garden, terrace, green slopes, water, old oaks,fern, moss, woods again, and far away across the openings in theprospect to the distance lying wide before us with a purple bloomupon it, there seemed to be such undisturbed repose.
When we came into the little village and passed a small inn with thesign of the Dedlock Arms swinging over the road in front, Mr.Boythorn interchanged greetings with a young gentleman sitting on abench outside the inn-door who had some fishing-tackle lying besidehim.
"That's the housekeeper's grandson, Mr. Rouncewell by name," said,he, "and he is in love with a pretty girl up at the house. LadyDedlock has taken a fancy to the pretty girl and is going to keep herabout her own fair person--an honour which my young friend himselfdoes not at all appreciate. However, he can't marry just yet, even ifhis Rosebud were willing; so he is fain to make the best of it. Inthe meanwhile, he comes here pretty often for a day or two at a timeto--fish. Ha ha ha ha!"
"Are he and the pretty girl engaged, Mr. Boythorn?" asked Ada.
"Why, my dear Miss Clare," he returned, "I think they may perhapsunderstand each other; but you will see them soon, I dare say, and Imust learn from you on such a point--not you from me."
Ada blushed, and Mr. Boythorn, trotting forward on his comely greyhorse, dismounted at his own door and stood ready with extended armand uncovered head to welcome us when we arrived.
He lived in a pretty house, formerly the parsonage house, with a lawnin front, a bright flower-garden at the side, and a well-stockedorchard and kitchen-garden in the rear, enclosed with a venerablewall that had of itself a ripened ruddy look. But, indeed, everythingabout the place wore an aspect of maturity and abundance. The oldlime-tree walk was like green cloisters, the very shadows of thecherry-trees and apple-trees were heavy with fruit, thegooseberry-bushes were so laden that their branches arched and restedon the earth, the strawberries and raspberries grew in likeprofusion, and the peaches basked by the hundred on the wall. Tumbledabout among the spread nets and the glass frames sparkling andwinking in the sun there were such heaps of drooping pods, andmarrows, and cucumbers, that every foot of ground appeared avegetable treasury, while the smell of sweet herbs and all kinds ofwholesome growth (to say nothing of the neighbouring meadows wherethe hay was carrying) made the whole air a great nosegay. Suchstillness and composure reigned within the orderly precincts of theold red wall that even the feathers hung in garlands to scare thebirds hardly stirred; and the wall had such a ripening influence thatwhere, here and there high up, a disused nail and scrap of list stillclung to it, it was easy to fancy that they had mellowed with thechanging seasons and that they had rusted and decayed according tothe common fate.
The house, though a little disorderly in comparison with the garden,was a real old house with settles in the chimney of the brick-flooredkitchen and great beams across the ceilings. On one side of it wasthe terrible piece of ground in dispute, where Mr. Boythornmaintained a sentry in a smock-frock day and night, whose duty wassupposed to be, in cases of aggression, immediately to ring a largebell hung up there for the purpose, to unchain a great bull-dogestablished in a kennel as his ally, and generally to dealdestruction on the enemy. Not content with these precautions, Mr.Boythorn had himself composed and posted there, on painted boards towhich his name was attached in large letters, the following solemnwarnings: "Beware of the bull-dog. He is most ferocious. LawrenceBoythorn." "The blunderbus is loaded with slugs. Lawrence Boythorn.""Man-traps and spring-guns are set here at all times of the day andnight. Lawrence Boythorn." "Take notice. That any person or personsaudaciously presuming to trespass on this property will be punishedwith the utmost severity of private chastisement and prosecuted withthe utmost rigour of the law. Lawrence Boythorn." These he showed usfrom the drawing-room window, while his bird was hopping about hishead, and he laughed, "Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha!" to that extent ashe pointed them out that I really thought he would have hurt himself.
"But this is taking a good deal of trouble," said Mr. Skimpole in hislight way, "when you are not in earnest after all."
"Not in earnest!" returned Mr. Boythorn with unspeakable warmth. "Notin earnest! If I could have hoped to train him, I would have bought alion instead of that dog and would have turned him loose upon thefirst intolerable robber who should dare to make an encroachment onmy rights. Let Sir Leicester Dedlock consent to come out and decidethis question by single combat, and I will meet him with any weaponknown to mankind in any age or country. I am that much in earnest.Not more!"
We arrived at his house on a Saturday. On the Sunday morning we allset forth to walk to the little church in the park. Entering thepark, almost immediately by the disputed ground, we pursued apleasant footpath winding among the verdant turf and the beautifultrees until it brought us to the church-porch.
The congregation was extremely small and quite a rustic one with theexception of a large muster of servants from the house, some of whomwere already in their seats, while others were yet dropping in. Therewere some stately footmen, and there was a perfect picture of an oldcoachman, who looked as if he were the official representative of allthe pomps and vanities that had ever been put into his coach. Therewas a very pretty show of young women, and above them, the handsomeold face and fine responsible portly figure of the housekeepertowered pre-eminent. The pretty girl of whom Mr. Boythorn had told uswas close by her. She was so very pretty that I might have known herby her beauty even if I had not seen how blushingly conscious she wasof the eyes of the young fisherman, whom I discovered not far off.One face, and not an agreeable one, though it was handsome, seemedmaliciously watchful of this pretty girl, and indeed of every one andeverything there. It was a Frenchwoman's.
As the bell was yet ringing and the great people were not yet come, Ihad leisure to glance over the church, which smelt as earthy as agrave, and to think what a shady, ancient, solemn little church itwas. The windows, heavily shaded by trees, admitted a subdued lightthat made the faces around me pale, and darkened the old brasses inthe pavement and the time and damp-worn monuments, and rendered thesunshine in the little porch, where a monotonous ringer was workingat the bell, inestimably bright. But a stir in that direction, agathering of reverential awe in the rustic faces, and a blandlyferocious assumption on the part of Mr. Boythorn of being resolutelyunconscious of somebody's existence forewarned me that the greatpeople were come and that the service was going to begin.
"'Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord, for in thysight--'"
Shall I ever forget the rapid beating at my heart, occasioned by thelook I met as I stood up! Shall I ever forget the manner in whichthose handsome proud eyes seemed to spring out of their languor andto hold mine! It was only a moment before I cast mine down--releasedagain, if I may say so--on my book; but I knew the beautiful facequite well in that short space of time.
And, very strangely, there was something quickened within me,associated with the lonely days at my godmother's; yes, away even tothe days when I had stood on tiptoe to dress myself at my littleglass after dressing my doll. And this, although I had never seenthis lady's face before in all my life--I was quite sure ofit--absolutely certain.
It was easy to know that the ceremonious, gouty, grey-hairedgentleman, the only other occupant of the great pew, was SirLeicester Dedlock, and that the lady was Lady Dedlock. But why herface should be, in a confused way, like a broken glass to me, inwhich I saw scraps of old remembrances, and why I should be sofluttered and troubled (for I was still) by having casually met hereyes, I could not think.
I felt it to be an unmeaning weakness in me and tried to overcome itby attending to the words I heard. Then, very strangely, I seemed tohear them, not in the reader's voice, but in the well-rememberedvoice of my godmother. This made me think, did Lady Dedlock's faceaccidentally resemble my godmother's? It might be that it did, alittle; but the expression was so different, and the stern decisionwhich had worn into my godmother's face, like weather into rocks, wasso completely wanting in the face before me that it could not be thatresemblance which had struck me. Neither did I know the loftiness andhaughtiness of Lady Dedlock's face, at all, in any one. And yet I--I,little Esther Summerson, the child who lived a life apart and onwhose birthday there was no rejoicing--seemed to arise before my owneyes, evoked out of the past by some power in this fashionable lady,whom I not only entertained no fancy that I had ever seen, but whom Iperfectly well knew I had never seen until that hour.
It made me tremble so to be thrown into this unaccountable agitationthat I was conscious of being distressed even by the observation ofthe French maid, though I knew she had been looking watchfully here,and there, and everywhere, from the moment of her coming into thechurch. By degrees, though very slowly, I at last overcame my strangeemotion. After a long time, I looked towards Lady Dedlock again. Itwas while they were preparing to sing, before the sermon. She took noheed of me, and the beating at my heart was gone. Neither did itrevive for more than a few moments when she once or twice afterwardsglanced at Ada or at me through her glass.
The service being concluded, Sir Leicester gave his arm with muchtaste and gallantry to Lady Dedlock--though he was obliged to walk bythe help of a thick stick--and escorted her out of church to the ponycarriage in which they had come. The servants then dispersed, and sodid the congregation, whom Sir Leicester had contemplated all along(Mr. Skimpole said to Mr. Boythorn's infinite delight) as if he werea considerable landed proprietor in heaven.
"He believes he is!" said Mr. Boythorn. "He firmly believes it. Sodid his father, and his grandfather, and his great-grandfather!"
"Do you know," pursued Mr. Skimpole very unexpectedly to Mr.Boythorn, "it's agreeable to me to see a man of that sort."
"IS it!" said Mr. Boythorn.
"Say that he wants to patronize me," pursued Mr. Skimpole. "Verywell! I don't object."
"I do," said Mr. Boythorn with great vigour.
"Do you really?" returned Mr. Skimpole in his easy light vein. "Butthat's taking trouble, surely. And why should you take trouble? Heream I, content to receive things childishly as they fall out, and Inever take trouble! I come down here, for instance, and I find amighty potentate exacting homage. Very well! I say 'Mighty potentate,here IS my homage! It's easier to give it than to withhold it. Hereit is. If you have anything of an agreeable nature to show me, Ishall be happy to see it; if you have anything of an agreeable natureto give me, I shall be happy to accept it.' Mighty potentate repliesin effect, 'This is a sensible fellow. I find him accord with mydigestion and my bilious system. He doesn't impose upon me thenecessity of rolling myself up like a hedgehog with my pointsoutward. I expand, I open, I turn my silver lining outward likeMilton's cloud, and it's more agreeable to both of us.' That's myview of such things, speaking as a child!"
"But suppose you went down somewhere else to-morrow," said Mr.Boythorn, "where there was the opposite of that fellow--or of thisfellow. How then?"
"How then?" said Mr. Skimpole with an appearance of the utmostsimplicity and candour. "Just the same then! I should say, 'Myesteemed Boythorn'--to make you the personification of our imaginaryfriend--'my esteemed Boythorn, you object to the mighty potentate?Very good. So do I. I take it that my business in the social systemis to be agreeable; I take it that everybody's business in the socialsystem is to be agreeable. It's a system of harmony, in short.Therefore if you object, I object. Now, excellent Boythorn, let us goto dinner!'"
"But excellent Boythorn might say," returned our host, swelling andgrowing very red, "I'll be--"
"I understand," said Mr. Skimpole. "Very likely he would."
"--if I WILL go to dinner!" cried Mr. Boythorn in a violent burst andstopping to strike his stick upon the ground. "And he would probablyadd, 'Is there such a thing as principle, Mr. Harold Skimpole?'"
"To which Harold Skimpole would reply, you know," he returned in hisgayest manner and with his most ingenuous smile, "'Upon my life Ihave not the least idea! I don't know what it is you call by thatname, or where it is, or who possesses it. If you possess it and findit comfortable, I am quite delighted and congratulate you heartily.But I know nothing about it, I assure you; for I am a mere child, andI lay no claim to it, and I don't want it!' So, you see, excellentBoythorn and I would go to dinner after all!"
This was one of many little dialogues between them which I alwaysexpected to end, and which I dare say would have ended under othercircumstances, in some violent explosion on the part of our host. Buthe had so high a sense of his hospitable and responsible position asour entertainer, and my guardian laughed so sincerely at and with Mr.Skimpole, as a child who blew bubbles and broke them all day long,that matters never went beyond this point. Mr. Skimpole, who alwaysseemed quite unconscious of having been on delicate ground, thenbetook himself to beginning some sketch in the park which he neverfinished, or to playing fragments of airs on the piano, or to singingscraps of songs, or to lying down on his back under a tree andlooking at the sky--which he couldn't help thinking, he said, waswhat he was meant for; it suited him so exactly.
"Enterprise and effort," he would say to us (on his back), "aredelightful to me. I believe I am truly cosmopolitan. I have thedeepest sympathy with them. I lie in a shady place like this andthink of adventurous spirits going to the North Pole or penetratingto the heart of the Torrid Zone with admiration. Mercenary creaturesask, 'What is the use of a man's going to the North Pole? What gooddoes it do?' I can't say; but, for anything I CAN say, he may go forthe purpose--though he don't know it--of employing my thoughts as Ilie here. Take an extreme case. Take the case of the slaves onAmerican plantations. I dare say they are worked hard, I dare saythey don't altogether like it. I dare say theirs is an unpleasantexperience on the whole; but they people the landscape for me, theygive it a poetry for me, and perhaps that is one of the pleasanterobjects of their existence. I am very sensible of it, if it be, and Ishouldn't wonder if it were!"
I always wondered on these occasions whether he ever thought of Mrs.Skimpole and the children, and in what point of view they presentedthemselves to his cosmopolitan mind. So far as I could understand,they rarely presented themselves at all.
The week had gone round to the Saturday following that beating of myheart in the church; and every day had been so bright and blue thatto ramble in the woods, and to see the light striking down among thetransparent leaves and sparkling in the beautiful interlacings of theshadows of the trees, while the birds poured out their songs and theair was drowsy with the hum of insects, had been most delightful. Wehad one favourite spot, deep in moss and last year's leaves, wherethere were some felled trees from which the bark was all strippedoff. Seated among these, we looked through a green vista supported bythousands of natural columns, the whitened stems of trees, upon adistant prospect made so radiant by its contrast with the shade inwhich we sat and made so precious by the arched perspective throughwhich we saw it that it was like a glimpse of the better land. Uponthe Saturday we sat here, Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and I, until we heardthunder muttering in the distance and felt the large raindrops rattlethrough the leaves.
The weather had been all the week extremely sultry, but the stormbroke so suddenly--upon us, at least, in that sheltered spot--thatbefore we reached the outskirts of the wood the thunder and lightningwere frequent and the rain came plunging through the leaves as ifevery drop were a great leaden bead. As it was not a time forstanding among trees, we ran out of the wood, and up and down themoss-grown steps which crossed the plantation-fence like twobroad-staved ladders placed back to back, and made for a keeper'slodge which was close at hand. We had often noticed the dark beautyof this lodge standing in a deep twilight of trees, and how the ivyclustered over it, and how there was a steep hollow near, where wehad once seen the keeper's dog dive down into the fern as if it werewater.
The lodge was so dark within, now the sky was overcast, that we onlyclearly saw the man who came to the door when we took shelter thereand put two chairs for Ada and me. The lattice-windows were allthrown open, and we sat just within the doorway watching the storm.It was grand to see how the wind awoke, and bent the trees, and drovethe rain before it like a cloud of smoke; and to hear the solemnthunder and to see the lightning; and while thinking with awe of thetremendous powers by which our little lives are encompassed, toconsider how beneficent they are and how upon the smallest flower andleaf there was already a freshness poured from all this seeming ragewhich seemed to make creation new again.
"Is it not dangerous to sit in so exposed a place?"
"Oh, no, Esther dear!" said Ada quietly.
Ada said it to me, but I had not spoken.
The beating of my heart came back again. I had never heard the voice,as I had never seen the face, but it affected me in the same strangeway. Again, in a moment, there arose before my mind innumerablepictures of myself.
Lady Dedlock had taken shelter in the lodge before our arrival thereand had come out of the gloom within. She stood behind my chair withher hand upon it. I saw her with her hand close to my shoulder when Iturned my head.
"I have frightened you?" she said.
No. It was not fright. Why should I be frightened!
"I believe," said Lady Dedlock to my guardian, "I have the pleasureof speaking to Mr. Jarndyce."
"Your remembrance does me more honour than I had supposed it would,Lady Dedlock," he returned.
"I recognized you in church on Sunday. I am sorry that any localdisputes of Sir Leicester's--they are not of his seeking, however, Ibelieve--should render it a matter of some absurd difficulty to showyou any attention here."
"I am aware of the circumstances," returned my guardian with a smile,"and am sufficiently obliged."
She had given him her hand in an indifferent way that seemed habitualto her and spoke in a correspondingly indifferent manner, though in avery pleasant voice. She was as graceful as she was beautiful,perfectly self-possessed, and had the air, I thought, of being ableto attract and interest any one if she had thought it worth herwhile. The keeper had brought her a chair on which she sat in themiddle of the porch between us.
"Is the young gentleman disposed of whom you wrote to Sir Leicesterabout and whose wishes Sir Leicester was sorry not to have it in hispower to advance in any way?" she said over her shoulder to myguardian.
"I hope so," said he.
She seemed to respect him and even to wish to conciliate him. Therewas something very winning in her haughty manner, and it became morefamiliar--I was going to say more easy, but that could hardly be--asshe spoke to him over her shoulder.
"I presume this is your other ward, Miss Clare?"
He presented Ada, in form.
"You will lose the disinterested part of your Don Quixote character,"said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce over her shoulder again, "if youonly redress the wrongs of beauty like this. But present me," and sheturned full upon me, "to this young lady too!"
"Miss Summerson really is my ward," said Mr. Jarndyce. "I amresponsible to no Lord Chancellor in her case."
"Has Miss Summerson lost both her parents?" said my Lady.
"Yes."
"She is very fortunate in her guardian."
Lady Dedlock looked at me, and I looked at her and said I was indeed.All at once she turned from me with a hasty air, almost expressive ofdispleasure or dislike, and spoke to him over her shoulder again.
"Ages have passed since we were in the habit of meeting, Mr.Jarndyce."
"A long time. At least I thought it was a long time, until I saw youlast Sunday," he returned.
"What! Even you are a courtier, or think it necessary to become oneto me!" she said with some disdain. "I have achieved that reputation,I suppose."
"You have achieved so much, Lady Dedlock," said my guardian, "thatyou pay some little penalty, I dare say. But none to me."
"So much!" she repeated, slightly laughing. "Yes!"
With her air of superiority, and power, and fascination, and I knownot what, she seemed to regard Ada and me as little more thanchildren. So, as she slightly laughed and afterwards sat looking atthe rain, she was as self-possessed and as free to occupy herselfwith her own thoughts as if she had been alone.
"I think you knew my sister when we were abroad together better thanyou know me?" she said, looking at him again.
"Yes, we happened to meet oftener," he returned.
"We went our several ways," said Lady Dedlock, "and had little incommon even before we agreed to differ. It is to be regretted, Isuppose, but it could not be helped."
Lady Dedlock again sat looking at the rain. The storm soon began topass upon its way. The shower greatly abated, the lightning ceased,the thunder rolled among the distant hills, and the sun began toglisten on the wet leaves and the falling rain. As we sat there,silently, we saw a little pony phaeton coming towards us at a merrypace.
"The messenger is coming back, my Lady," said the keeper, "with thecarriage."
As it drove up, we saw that there were two people inside. Therealighted from it, with some cloaks and wrappers, first theFrenchwoman whom I had seen in church, and secondly the pretty girl,the Frenchwoman with a defiant confidence, the pretty girl confusedand hesitating.
"What now?" said Lady Dedlock. "Two!"
"I am your maid, my Lady, at the present," said the Frenchwoman. "Themessage was for the attendant."
"I was afraid you might mean me, my Lady," said the pretty girl.
"I did mean you, child," replied her mistress calmly. "Put that shawlon me."
She slightly stooped her shoulders to receive it, and the pretty girllightly dropped it in its place. The Frenchwoman stood unnoticed,looking on with her lips very tightly set.
"I am sorry," said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce, "that we are notlikely to renew our former acquaintance. You will allow me to sendthe carriage back for your two wards. It shall be here directly."
But as he would on no account accept this offer, she took a gracefulleave of Ada--none of me--and put her hand upon his proffered arm,and got into the carriage, which was a little, low, park carriagewith a hood.
"Come in, child," she said to the pretty girl; "I shall want you. Goon!"
The carriage rolled away, and the Frenchwoman, with the wrappers shehad brought hanging over her arm, remained standing where she hadalighted.
I suppose there is nothing pride can so little bear with as prideitself, and that she was punished for her imperious manner. Herretaliation was the most singular I could have imagined. She remainedperfectly still until the carriage had turned into the drive, andthen, without the least discomposure of countenance, slipped off hershoes, left them on the ground, and walked deliberately in the samedirection through the wettest of the wet grass.
"Is that young woman mad?" said my guardian.
"Oh, no, sir!" said the keeper, who, with his wife, was looking afterher. "Hortense is not one of that sort. She has as good a head-pieceas the best. But she's mortal high and passionate--powerful high andpassionate; and what with having notice to leave, and having othersput above her, she don't take kindly to it."
"But why should she walk shoeless through all that water?" said myguardian.
"Why, indeed, sir, unless it is to cool her down!" said the man.
"Or unless she fancies it's blood," said the woman. "She'd as soonwalk through that as anything else, I think, when her own's up!"
We passed not far from the house a few minutes afterwards. Peacefulas it had looked when we first saw it, it looked even more so now,with a diamond spray glittering all about it, a light wind blowing,the birds no longer hushed but singing strongly, everything refreshedby the late rain, and the little carriage shining at the doorway likea fairy carriage made of silver. Still, very steadfastly and quietlywalking towards it, a peaceful figure too in the landscape, wentMademoiselle Hortense, shoeless, through the wet grass.



CHAPTER XIX
Moving On

It is the long vacation in the regions of Chancery Lane. The goodships Law and Equity, those teak-built, copper-bottomed,iron-fastened, brazen-faced, and not by any means fast-sailingclippers are laid up in ordinary. The Flying Dutchman, with a crew ofghostly clients imploring all whom they may encounter to peruse theirpapers, has drifted, for the time being, heaven knows where. Thecourts are all shut up; the public offices lie in a hot sleep.Westminster Hall itself is a shady solitude where nightingales mightsing, and a tenderer class of suitors than is usually found there,walk.
The Temple, Chancery Lane, Serjeants' Inn, and Lincoln's Inn evenunto the Fields are like tidal harbours at low water, where strandedproceedings, offices at anchor, idle clerks lounging on lop-sidedstools that will not recover their perpendicular until the current ofTerm sets in, lie high and dry upon the ooze of the long vacation.Outer doors of chambers are shut up by the score, messages andparcels are to be left at the Porter's Lodge by the bushel. A crop ofgrass would grow in the chinks of the stone pavement outsideLincoln's Inn Hall, but that the ticket-porters, who have nothing todo beyond sitting in the shade there, with their white aprons overtheir heads to keep the flies off, grub it up and eat itthoughtfully.
There is only one judge in town. Even he only comes twice a week tosit in chambers. If the country folks of those assize towns on hiscircuit could see him now! No full-bottomed wig, no red petticoats,no fur, no javelin-men, no white wands. Merely a close-shavedgentleman in white trousers and a white hat, with sea-bronze on thejudicial countenance, and a strip of bark peeled by the solar raysfrom the judicial nose, who calls in at the shell-fish shop as hecomes along and drinks iced ginger-beer!
The bar of England is scattered over the face of the earth. HowEngland can get on through four long summer months without itsbar--which is its acknowledged refuge in adversity and its onlylegitimate triumph in prosperity--is beside the question; assuredlythat shield and buckler of Britannia are not in present wear. Thelearned gentleman who is always so tremendously indignant at theunprecedented outrage committed on the feelings of his client by theopposite party that he never seems likely to recover it is doinginfinitely better than might be expected in Switzerland. The learnedgentleman who does the withering business and who blights allopponents with his gloomy sarcasm is as merry as a grig at a Frenchwatering-place. The learned gentleman who weeps by the pint on thesmallest provocation has not shed a tear these six weeks. The verylearned gentleman who has cooled the natural heat of his gingerycomplexion in pools and fountains of law until he has become great inknotty arguments for term-time, when he poses the drowsy bench withlegal "chaff," inexplicable to the uninitiated and to most of theinitiated too, is roaming, with a characteristic delight in aridityand dust, about Constantinople. Other dispersed fragments of the samegreat palladium are to be found on the canals of Venice, at thesecond cataract of the Nile, in the baths of Germany, and sprinkledon the sea-sand all over the English coast. Scarcely one is to beencountered in the deserted region of Chancery Lane. If such a lonelymember of the bar do flit across the waste and come upon a prowlingsuitor who is unable to leave off haunting the scenes of his anxiety,they frighten one another and retreat into opposite shades.
It is the hottest long vacation known for many years. All the youngclerks are madly in love, and according to their various degrees,pine for bliss with the beloved object, at Margate, Ramsgate, orGravesend. All the middle-aged clerks think their families too large.All the unowned dogs who stray into the Inns of Court and pant aboutstaircases and other dry places seeking water give short howls ofaggravation. All the blind men's dogs in the streets draw theirmasters against pumps or trip them over buckets. A shop with asun-blind, and a watered pavement, and a bowl of gold and silver fishin the window, is a sanctuary. Temple Bar gets so hot that it is, tothe adjacent Strand and Fleet Street, what a heater is in an urn, andkeeps them simmering all night.
There are offices about the Inns of Court in which a man might becool, if any coolness were worth purchasing at such a price indullness; but the little thoroughfares immediately outside thoseretirements seem to blaze. In Mr. Krook's court, it is so hot thatthe people turn their houses inside out and sit in chairs upon thepavement--Mr. Krook included, who there pursues his studies, with hiscat (who never is too hot) by his side. The Sol's Arms hasdiscontinued the Harmonic Meetings for the season, and Little Swillsis engaged at the Pastoral Gardens down the river, where he comes outin quite an innocent manner and sings comic ditties of a juvenilecomplexion calculated (as the bill says) not to wound the feelings ofthe most fastidious mind.
Over all the legal neighbourhood there hangs, like some great veil ofrust or gigantic cobweb, the idleness and pensiveness of the longvacation. Mr. Snagsby, law-stationer of Cook's Court, CursitorStreet, is sensible of the influence not only in his mind as asympathetic and contemplative man, but also in his business as alaw-stationer aforesaid. He has more leisure for musing in Staple Innand in the Rolls Yard during the long vacation than at other seasons,and he says to the two 'prentices, what a thing it is in such hotweather to think that you live in an island with the sea a-rollingand a-bowling right round you.
Guster is busy in the little drawing-room on this present afternoonin the long vacation, when Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby have it incontemplation to receive company. The expected guests are ratherselect than numerous, being Mr. and Mrs. Chadband and no more. FromMr. Chadband's being much given to describe himself, both verballyand in writing, as a vessel, he is occasionally mistaken by strangersfor a gentleman connected with navigation, but he is, as he expressesit, "in the ministry." Mr. Chadband is attached to no particulardenomination and is considered by his persecutors to have nothing sovery remarkable to say on the greatest of subjects as to render hisvolunteering, on his own account, at all incumbent on his conscience;but he has his followers, and Mrs. Snagsby is of the number. Mrs.Snagsby has but recently taken a passage upward by the vessel,Chadband; and her attention was attracted to that Bark A 1, when shewas something flushed by the hot weather.
"My little woman," says Mr. Snagsby to the sparrows in Staple Inn,"likes to have her religion rather sharp, you see!"
So Guster, much impressed by regarding herself for the time as thehandmaid of Chadband, whom she knows to be endowed with the gift ofholding forth for four hours at a stretch, prepares the littledrawing-room for tea. All the furniture is shaken and dusted, theportraits of Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby are touched up with a wet cloth,the best tea-service is set forth, and there is excellent provisionmade of dainty new bread, crusty twists, cool fresh butter, thinslices of ham, tongue, and German sausage, and delicate little rowsof anchovies nestling in parsley, not to mention new-laid eggs, to bebrought up warm in a napkin, and hot buttered toast. For Chadband israther a consuming vessel--the persecutors say a gorging vessel--andcan wield such weapons of the flesh as a knife and fork remarkablywell.
Mr. Snagsby in his best coat, looking at all the preparations whenthey are completed and coughing his cough of deference behind hishand, says to Mrs. Snagsby, "At what time did you expect Mr. and Mrs.Chadband, my love?"
"At six," says Mrs. Snagsby.
Mr. Snagsby observes in a mild and casual way that "it's gone that."
"Perhaps you'd like to begin without them," is Mrs. Snagsby'sreproachful remark.
Mr. Snagsby does look as if he would like it very much, but he says,with his cough of mildness, "No, my dear, no. I merely named thetime."
"What's time," says Mrs. Snagsby, "to eternity?"
"Very true, my dear," says Mr. Snagsby. "Only when a person lays invictuals for tea, a person does it with a view--perhaps--more totime. And when a time is named for having tea, it's better to come upto it."
"To come up to it!" Mrs. Snagsby repeats with severity. "Up to it! Asif Mr. Chadband was a fighter!"
"Not at all, my dear," says Mr. Snagsby.
Here, Guster, who had been looking out of the bedroom window, comesrustling and scratching down the little staircase like a popularghost, and falling flushed into the drawing-room, announces that Mr.and Mrs. Chadband have appeared in the court. The bell at the innerdoor in the passage immediately thereafter tinkling, she isadmonished by Mrs. Snagsby, on pain of instant reconsignment to herpatron saint, not to omit the ceremony of announcement. Muchdiscomposed in her nerves (which were previously in the best order)by this threat, she so fearfully mutilates that point of state as toannounce "Mr. and Mrs. Cheeseming, least which, Imeantersay,whatsername!" and retires conscience-stricken from the presence.
Mr. Chadband is a large yellow man with a fat smile and a generalappearance of having a good deal of train oil in his system. Mrs.Chadband is a stern, severe-looking, silent woman. Mr. Chadband movessoftly and cumbrously, not unlike a bear who has been taught to walkupright. He is very much embarrassed about the arms, as if they wereinconvenient to him and he wanted to grovel, is very much in aperspiration about the head, and never speaks without first puttingup his great hand, as delivering a token to his hearers that he isgoing to edify them.
"My friends," says Mr. Chadband, "peace be on this house! On themaster thereof, on the mistress thereof, on the young maidens, and onthe young men! My friends, why do I wish for peace? What is peace? Isit war? No. Is it strife? No. Is it lovely, and gentle, andbeautiful, and pleasant, and serene, and joyful? Oh, yes! Therefore,my friends, I wish for peace, upon you and upon yours."
In consequence of Mrs. Snagsby looking deeply edified, Mr. Snagsbythinks it expedient on the whole to say amen, which is well received.
"Now, my friends," proceeds Mr. Chadband, "since I am upon thistheme--"
Guster presents herself. Mrs. Snagsby, in a spectral bass voice andwithout removing her eyes from Chadband, says with dreadfuldistinctness, "Go away!"
"Now, my friends," says Chadband, "since I am upon this theme, and inmy lowly path improving it--"
Guster is heard unaccountably to murmur "one thousing seven hundredand eighty-two." The spectral voice repeats more solemnly, "Go away!"
"Now, my friends," says Mr. Chadband, "we will inquire in a spirit oflove--"
Still Guster reiterates "one thousing seven hundred and eighty-two."
Mr. Chadband, pausing with the resignation of a man accustomed to bepersecuted and languidly folding up his chin into his fat smile,says, "Let us hear the maiden! Speak, maiden!"
"One thousing seven hundred and eighty-two, if you please, sir. Whichhe wish to know what the shilling ware for," says Guster, breathless.
"For?" returns Mrs. Chadband. "For his fare!"
Guster replied that "he insistes on one and eightpence or onsummonsizzing the party." Mrs. Snagsby and Mrs. Chadband areproceeding to grow shrill in indignation when Mr. Chadband quiets thetumult by lifting up his hand.
"My friends," says he, "I remember a duty unfulfilled yesterday. Itis right that I should be chastened in some penalty. I ought not tomurmur. Rachael, pay the eightpence!"
While Mrs. Snagsby, drawing her breath, looks hard at Mr. Snagsby, aswho should say, "You hear this apostle!" and while Mr. Chadband glowswith humility and train oil, Mrs. Chadband pays the money. It is Mr.Chadband's habit--it is the head and front of his pretensionsindeed--to keep this sort of debtor and creditor account in thesmallest items and to post it publicly on the most trivial occasions.
"My friends," says Chadband, "eightpence is not much; it might justlyhave been one and fourpence; it might justly have been half a crown.O let us be joyful, joyful! O let us be joyful!"
With which remark, which appears from its sound to be an extract inverse, Mr. Chadband stalks to the table, and before taking a chair,lifts up his admonitory hand.
"My friends," says he, "what is this which we now behold as beingspread before us? Refreshment. Do we need refreshment then, myfriends? We do. And why do we need refreshment, my friends? Becausewe are but mortal, because we are but sinful, because we are but ofthe earth, because we are not of the air. Can we fly, my friends? Wecannot. Why can we not fly, my friends?"
Mr. Snagsby, presuming on the success of his last point, ventures toobserve in a cheerful and rather knowing tone, "No wings." But isimmediately frowned down by Mrs. Snagsby.
"I say, my friends," pursues Mr. Chadband, utterly rejecting andobliterating Mr. Snagsby's suggestion, "why can we not fly? Is itbecause we are calculated to walk? It is. Could we walk, my friends,without strength? We could not. What should we do without strength,my friends? Our legs would refuse to bear us, our knees would doubleup, our ankles would turn over, and we should come to the ground.Then from whence, my friends, in a human point of view, do we derivethe strength that is necessary to our limbs? Is it," says Chadband,glancing over the table, "from bread in various forms, from butterwhich is churned from the milk which is yielded unto us by the cow,from the eggs which are laid by the fowl, from ham, from tongue, fromsausage, and from such like? It is. Then let us partake of the goodthings which are set before us!"
The persecutors denied that there was any particular gift in Mr.Chadband's piling verbose flights of stairs, one upon another, afterthis fashion. But this can only be received as a proof of theirdetermination to persecute, since it must be within everybody'sexperience that the Chadband style of oratory is widely received andmuch admired.
Mr. Chadband, however, having concluded for the present, sits down atMr. Snagsby's table and lays about him prodigiously. The conversionof nutriment of any sort into oil of the quality already mentionedappears to be a process so inseparable from the constitution of thisexemplary vessel that in beginning to eat and drink, he may bedescribed as always becoming a kind of considerable oil mills orother large factory for the production of that article on a wholesalescale. On the present evening of the long vacation, in Cook's Court,Cursitor Street, he does such a powerful stroke of business that thewarehouse appears to be quite full when the works cease.
At this period of the entertainment, Guster, who has never recoveredher first failure, but has neglected no possible or impossible meansof bringing the establishment and herself into contempt--among whichmay be briefly enumerated her unexpectedly performing clashingmilitary music on Mr. Chadband's head with plates, and afterwardscrowning that gentleman with muffins--at which period of theentertainment, Guster whispers Mr. Snagsby that he is wanted.
"And being wanted in the--not to put too fine a point upon it--in theshop," says Mr. Snagsby, rising, "perhaps this good company willexcuse me for half a minute."
Mr. Snagsby descends and finds the two 'prentices intentlycontemplating a police constable, who holds a ragged boy by the arm.
"Why, bless my heart," says Mr. Snagsby, "what's the matter!"
"This boy," says the constable, "although he's repeatedly told to,won't move on--"
"I'm always a-moving on, sar," cries the boy, wiping away his grimytears with his arm. "I've always been a-moving and a-moving on, eversince I was born. Where can I possibly move to, sir, more nor I domove!"
"He won't move on," says the constable calmly, with a slightprofessional hitch of his neck involving its better settlement in hisstiff stock, "although he has been repeatedly cautioned, andtherefore I am obliged to take him into custody. He's as obstinate ayoung gonoph as I know. He WON'T move on."
"Oh, my eye! Where can I move to!" cries the boy, clutching quitedesperately at his hair and beating his bare feet upon the floor ofMr. Snagsby's passage.
"Don't you come none of that or I shall make blessed short work ofyou!" says the constable, giving him a passionless shake. "Myinstructions are that you are to move on. I have told you so fivehundred times."
"But where?" cries the boy.
"Well! Really, constable, you know," says Mr. Snagsby wistfully, andcoughing behind his hand his cough of great perplexity and doubt,"really, that does seem a question. Where, you know?"
"My instructions don't go to that," replies the constable. "Myinstructions are that this boy is to move on."
Do you hear, Jo? It is nothing to you or to any one else that thegreat lights of the parliamentary sky have failed for some few yearsin this business to set you the example of moving on. The one grandrecipe remains for you--the profound philosophical prescription--thebe-all and the end-all of your strange existence upon earth. Move on!You are by no means to move off, Jo, for the great lights can't atall agree about that. Move on!
Mr. Snagsby says nothing to this effect, says nothing at all indeed,but coughs his forlornest cough, expressive of no thoroughfare in anydirection. By this time Mr. and Mrs. Chadband and Mrs. Snagsby,hearing the altercation, have appeared upon the stairs. Guster havingnever left the end of the passage, the whole household are assembled.
"The simple question is, sir," says the constable, "whether you knowthis boy. He says you do."
Mrs. Snagsby, from her elevation, instantly cries out, "No he don't!"
"My lit-tle woman!" says Mr. Snagsby, looking up the staircase. "Mylove, permit me! Pray have a moment's patience, my dear. I do knowsomething of this lad, and in what I know of him, I can't say thatthere's any harm; perhaps on the contrary, constable." To whom thelaw-stationer relates his Joful and woeful experience, suppressingthe half-crown fact.
"Well!" says the constable, "so far, it seems, he had grounds forwhat he said. When I took him into custody up in Holborn, he said youknew him. Upon that, a young man who was in the crowd said he wasacquainted with you, and you were a respectable housekeeper, and ifI'd call and make the inquiry, he'd appear. The young man don't seeminclined to keep his word, but--Oh! Here IS the young man!"
Enter Mr. Guppy, who nods to Mr. Snagsby and touches his hat with thechivalry of clerkship to the ladies on the stairs.
"I was strolling away from the office just now when I found this rowgoing on," says Mr. Guppy to the law-stationer, "and as your name wasmentioned, I thought it was right the thing should be looked into."
"It was very good-natured of you, sir," says Mr. Snagsby, "and I amobliged to you." And Mr. Snagsby again relates his experience, againsuppressing the half-crown fact.
"Now, I know where you live," says the constable, then, to Jo. "Youlive down in Tom-all-Alone's. That's a nice innocent place to livein, ain't it?"
"I can't go and live in no nicer place, sir," replies Jo. "Theywouldn't have nothink to say to me if I wos to go to a nice innocentplace fur to live. Who ud go and let a nice innocent lodging to sucha reg'lar one as me!"
"You are very poor, ain't you?" says the constable.
"Yes, I am indeed, sir, wery poor in gin'ral," replies Jo. "I leaveyou to judge now! I shook these two half-crowns out of him," says theconstable, producing them to the company, "in only putting my handupon him!"
"They're wot's left, Mr. Snagsby," says Jo, "out of a sov-ring as wosgive me by a lady in a wale as sed she wos a servant and as come tomy crossin one night and asked to be showd this 'ere ouse and theouse wot him as you giv the writin to died at, and the berrin-groundwot he's berrid in. She ses to me she ses 'are you the boy at theinkwhich?' she ses. I ses 'yes' I ses. She ses to me she ses 'can youshow me all them places?' I ses 'yes I can' I ses. And she ses to me'do it' and I dun it and she giv me a sov'ring and hooked it. And Ian't had much of the sov'ring neither," says Jo, with dirty tears,"fur I had to pay five bob, down in Tom-all-Alone's, afore they'dsquare it fur to give me change, and then a young man he thievedanother five while I was asleep and another boy he thieved ninepenceand the landlord he stood drains round with a lot more on it."
"You don't expect anybody to believe this, about the lady and thesovereign, do you?" says the constable, eyeing him aside withineffable disdain.
"I don't know as I do, sir," replies Jo. "I don't expect nothink atall, sir, much, but that's the true hist'ry on it."
"You see what he is!" the constable observes to the audience. "Well,Mr. Snagsby, if I don't lock him up this time, will you engage forhis moving on?"
"No!" cries Mrs. Snagsby from the stairs.
"My little woman!" pleads her husband. "Constable, I have no doubthe'll move on. You know you really must do it," says Mr. Snagsby.
"I'm everyways agreeable, sir," says the hapless Jo.
"Do it, then," observes the constable. "You know what you have got todo. Do it! And recollect you won't get off so easy next time. Catchhold of your money. Now, the sooner you're five mile off, the betterfor all parties."
With this farewell hint and pointing generally to the setting sun asa likely place to move on to, the constable bids his auditors goodafternoon and makes the echoes of Cook's Court perform slow music forhim as he walks away on the shady side, carrying his iron-bound hatin his hand for a little ventilation.
Now, Jo's improbable story concerning the lady and the sovereign hasawakened more or less the curiosity of all the company. Mr. Guppy,who has an inquiring mind in matters of evidence and who hasbeen suffering severely from the lassitude of the long vacation,takes that interest in the case that he enters on a regularcross-examination of the witness, which is found so interesting bythe ladies that Mrs. Snagsby politely invites him to step upstairsand drink a cup of tea, if he will excuse the disarranged state ofthe tea-table, consequent on their previous exertions. Mr. Guppyyielding his assent to this proposal, Jo is requested to follow intothe drawing-room doorway, where Mr. Guppy takes him in hand as awitness, patting him into this shape, that shape, and the other shapelike a butterman dealing with so much butter, and worrying himaccording to the best models. Nor is the examination unlike many suchmodel displays, both in respect of its eliciting nothing and of itsbeing lengthy, for Mr. Guppy is sensible of his talent, and Mrs.Snagsby feels not only that it gratifies her inquisitive disposition,but that it lifts her husband's establishment higher up in the law.During the progress of this keen encounter, the vessel Chadband,being merely engaged in the oil trade, gets aground and waits to befloated off.
"Well!" says Mr. Guppy. "Either this boy sticks to it likecobbler's-wax or there is something out of the common here that beatsanything that ever came into my way at Kenge and Carboy's."
Mrs. Chadband whispers Mrs. Snagsby, who exclaims, "You don't sayso!"
"For years!" replied Mrs. Chadband.
"Has known Kenge and Carboy's office for years," Mrs. Snagsbytriumphantly explains to Mr. Guppy. "Mrs. Chadband--this gentleman'swife--Reverend Mr. Chadband."
"Oh, indeed!" says Mr. Guppy.
"Before I married my present husband," says Mrs. Chadband.
"Was you a party in anything, ma'am?" says Mr. Guppy, transferringhis cross-examination.
"No."
"NOT a party in anything, ma'am?" says Mr. Guppy.
Mrs. Chadband shakes her head.
"Perhaps you were acquainted with somebody who was a party insomething, ma'am?" says Mr. Guppy, who likes nothing better than tomodel his conversation on forensic principles.
"Not exactly that, either," replies Mrs. Chadband, humouring the jokewith a hard-favoured smile.
"Not exactly that, either!" repeats Mr. Guppy. "Very good. Pray,ma'am, was it a lady of your acquaintance who had some transactions(we will not at present say what transactions) with Kenge andCarboy's office, or was it a gentleman of your acquaintance? Taketime, ma'am. We shall come to it presently. Man or woman, ma'am?"
"Neither," says Mrs. Chadband as before.
"Oh! A child!" says Mr. Guppy, throwing on the admiring Mrs. Snagsbythe regular acute professional eye which is thrown on Britishjurymen. "Now, ma'am, perhaps you'll have the kindness to tell usWHAT child."
"You have got it at last, sir," says Mrs. Chadband with anotherhard-favoured smile. "Well, sir, it was before your time, mostlikely, judging from your appearance. I was left in charge of a childnamed Esther Summerson, who was put out in life by Messrs. Kenge andCarboy."
"Miss Summerson, ma'am!" cries Mr. Guppy, excited.
"I call her Esther Summerson," says Mrs. Chadband with austerity."There was no Miss-ing of the girl in my time. It was Esther.'Esther, do this! Esther, do that!' and she was made to do it."
"My dear ma'am," returns Mr. Guppy, moving across the smallapartment, "the humble individual who now addresses you received thatyoung lady in London when she first came here from the establishmentto which you have alluded. Allow me to have the pleasure of takingyou by the hand."
Mr. Chadband, at last seeing his opportunity, makes his accustomedsignal and rises with a smoking head, which he dabs with hispocket-handkerchief. Mrs. Snagsby whispers "Hush!"
"My friends," says Chadband, "we have partaken in moderation" (whichwas certainly not the case so far as he was concerned) "of thecomforts which have been provided for us. May this house live uponthe fatness of the land; may corn and wine be plentiful therein; mayit grow, may it thrive, may it prosper, may it advance, may itproceed, may it press forward! But, my friends, have we partaken ofanything else? We have. My friends, of what else have we partaken? Ofspiritual profit? Yes. From whence have we derived that spiritualprofit? My young friend, stand forth!"
Jo, thus apostrophized, gives a slouch backward, and another slouchforward, and another slouch to each side, and confronts the eloquentChadband with evident doubts of his intentions.
"My young friend," says Chadband, "you are to us a pearl, you are tous a diamond, you are to us a gem, you are to us a jewel. And why, myyoung friend?"
"I don't know," replies Jo. "I don't know nothink."
"My young friend," says Chadband, "it is because you know nothingthat you are to us a gem and jewel. For what are you, my youngfriend? Are you a beast of the field? No. A bird of the air? No. Afish of the sea or river? No. You are a human boy, my young friend. Ahuman boy. O glorious to be a human boy! And why glorious, my youngfriend? Because you are capable of receiving the lessons of wisdom,because you are capable of profiting by this discourse which I nowdeliver for your good, because you are not a stick, or a staff, or astock, or a stone, or a post, or a pillar.
   O running stream of sparkling joy   To be a soaring human boy!
And do you cool yourself in that stream now, my young friend? No.Why do you not cool yourself in that stream now? Because you are in astate of darkness, because you are in a state of obscurity, becauseyou are in a state of sinfulness, because you are in a state ofbondage. My young friend, what is bondage? Let us, in a spirit oflove, inquire."
At this threatening stage of the discourse, Jo, who seems to havebeen gradually going out of his mind, smears his right arm over hisface and gives a terrible yawn. Mrs. Snagsby indignantly expressesher belief that he is a limb of the arch-fiend.
"My friends," says Mr. Chadband with his persecuted chin foldingitself into its fat smile again as he looks round, "it is right thatI should be humbled, it is right that I should be tried, it is rightthat I should be mortified, it is right that I should be corrected. Istumbled, on Sabbath last, when I thought with pride of my threehours' improving. The account is now favourably balanced: my creditorhas accepted a composition. O let us be joyful, joyful! O let us bejoyful!"
Great sensation on the part of Mrs. Snagsby.
"My friends," says Chadband, looking round him in conclusion, "I willnot proceed with my young friend now. Will you come to-morrow, myyoung friend, and inquire of this good lady where I am to be found todeliver a discourse unto you, and will you come like the thirstyswallow upon the next day, and upon the day after that, and upon theday after that, and upon many pleasant days, to hear discourses?"(This with a cow-like lightness.)
Jo, whose immediate object seems to be to get away on any terms,gives a shuffling nod. Mr. Guppy then throws him a penny, and Mrs.Snagsby calls to Guster to see him safely out of the house. Butbefore he goes downstairs, Mr. Snagsby loads him with some brokenmeats from the table, which he carries away, hugging in his arms.
So, Mr. Chadband--of whom the persecutors say that it is no wonder heshould go on for any length of time uttering such abominablenonsense, but that the wonder rather is that he should ever leaveoff, having once the audacity to begin--retires into private lifeuntil he invests a little capital of supper in the oil-trade. Jomoves on, through the long vacation, down to Blackfriars Bridge,where he finds a baking stony corner wherein to settle to his repast.
And there he sits, munching and gnawing, and looking up at the greatcross on the summit of St. Paul's Cathedral, glittering above ared-and-violet-tinted cloud of smoke. From the boy's face one mightsuppose that sacred emblem to be, in his eyes, the crowning confusionof the great, confused city--so golden, so high up, so far out of hisreach. There he sits, the sun going down, the river running fast, thecrowd flowing by him in two streams--everything moving on to somepurpose and to one end--until he is stirred up and told to "move on"too.



CHAPTER XX
A New Lodger

The long vacation saunters on towards term-time like an idle riververy leisurely strolling down a flat country to the sea. Mr. Guppysaunters along with it congenially. He has blunted the blade of hispenknife and broken the point off by sticking that instrument intohis desk in every direction. Not that he bears the desk any ill will,but he must do something, and it must be something of an unexcitingnature, which will lay neither his physical nor his intellectualenergies under too heavy contribution. He finds that nothing agreeswith him so well as to make little gyrations on one leg of his stool,and stab his desk, and gape.
Kenge and Carboy are out of town, and the articled clerk has takenout a shooting license and gone down to his father's, and Mr. Guppy'stwo fellow-stipendiaries are away on leave. Mr. Guppy and Mr. RichardCarstone divide the dignity of the office. But Mr. Carstone is forthe time being established in Kenge's room, whereat Mr. Guppy chafes.So exceedingly that he with biting sarcasm informs his mother, in theconfidential moments when he sups with her off a lobster and lettucein the Old Street Road, that he is afraid the office is hardly goodenough for swells, and that if he had known there was a swell coming,he would have got it painted.
Mr. Guppy suspects everybody who enters on the occupation of a stoolin Kenge and Carboy's office of entertaining, as a matter of course,sinister designs upon him. He is clear that every such person wantsto depose him. If he be ever asked how, why, when, or wherefore, heshuts up one eye and shakes his head. On the strength of theseprofound views, he in the most ingenious manner takes infinite painsto counterplot when there is no plot, and plays the deepest games ofchess without any adversary.
It is a source of much gratification to Mr. Guppy, therefore, to findthe new-comer constantly poring over the papers in Jarndyce andJarndyce, for he well knows that nothing but confusion and failurecan come of that. His satisfaction communicates itself to a thirdsaunterer through the long vacation in Kenge and Carboy's office, towit, Young Smallweed.
Whether Young Smallweed (metaphorically called Small and eke ChickWeed, as it were jocularly to express a fledgling) was ever a boy ismuch doubted in Lincoln's Inn. He is now something under fifteen andan old limb of the law. He is facetiously understood to entertain apassion for a lady at a cigar-shop in the neighbourhood of ChanceryLane and for her sake to have broken off a contract with anotherlady, to whom he had been engaged some years. He is a town-madearticle, of small stature and weazen features, but may be perceivedfrom a considerable distance by means of his very tall hat. To becomea Guppy is the object of his ambition. He dresses at that gentleman(by whom he is patronized), talks at him, walks at him, foundshimself entirely on him. He is honoured with Mr. Guppy's particularconfidence and occasionally advises him, from the deep wells of hisexperience, on difficult points in private life.
Mr. Guppy has been lolling out of window all the morning after tryingall the stools in succession and finding none of them easy, and afterseveral times putting his head into the iron safe with a notion ofcooling it. Mr. Smallweed has been twice dispatched for effervescentdrinks, and has twice mixed them in the two official tumblers andstirred them up with the ruler. Mr. Guppy propounds for Mr.Smallweed's consideration the paradox that the more you drink thethirstier you are and reclines his head upon the window-sill in astate of hopeless languor.
While thus looking out into the shade of Old Square, Lincoln's Inn,surveying the intolerable bricks and mortar, Mr. Guppy becomesconscious of a manly whisker emerging from the cloistered walk belowand turning itself up in the direction of his face. At the same time,a low whistle is wafted through the Inn and a suppressed voice cries,"Hip! Gup-py!"
"Why, you don't mean it!" says Mr. Guppy, aroused. "Small! Here'sJobling!" Small's head looks out of window too and nods to Jobling.
"Where have you sprung up from?" inquires Mr. Guppy.
"From the market-gardens down by Deptford. I can't stand it anylonger. I must enlist. I say! I wish you'd lend me half a crown. Uponmy soul, I'm hungry."
Jobling looks hungry and also has the appearance of having run toseed in the market-gardens down by Deptford.
"I say! Just throw out half a crown if you have got one to spare. Iwant to get some dinner."
"Will you come and dine with me?" says Mr. Guppy, throwing out thecoin, which Mr. Jobling catches neatly.
"How long should I have to hold out?" says Jobling.
"Not half an hour. I am only waiting here till the enemy goes,returns Mr. Guppy, butting inward with his head.
"What enemy?"
"A new one. Going to be articled. Will you wait?"
"Can you give a fellow anything to read in the meantime?" says Mr.Jobling.
Smallweed suggests the law list. But Mr. Jobling declares with muchearnestness that he "can't stand it."
"You shall have the paper," says Mr. Guppy. "He shall bring it down.But you had better not be seen about here. Sit on our staircase andread. It's a quiet place."
Jobling nods intelligence and acquiescence. The sagacious Smallweedsupplies him with the newspaper and occasionally drops his eye uponhim from the landing as a precaution against his becoming disgustedwith waiting and making an untimely departure. At last the enemyretreats, and then Smallweed fetches Mr. Jobling up.
"Well, and how are you?" says Mr. Guppy, shaking hands with him.
"So, so. How are you?"
Mr. Guppy replying that he is not much to boast of, Mr. Joblingventures on the question, "How is SHE?" This Mr. Guppy resents as aliberty, retorting, "Jobling, there ARE chords in the human mind--"Jobling begs pardon.
"Any subject but that!" says Mr. Guppy with a gloomy enjoyment of hisinjury. "For there ARE chords, Jobling--"
Mr. Jobling begs pardon again.
During this short colloquy, the active Smallweed, who is of thedinner party, has written in legal characters on a slip of paper,"Return immediately." This notification to all whom it may concern,he inserts in the letter-box, and then putting on the tall hat at theangle of inclination at which Mr. Guppy wears his, informs his patronthat they may now make themselves scarce.
Accordingly they betake themselves to a neighbouring dining-house, ofthe class known among its frequenters by the denomination slap-bang,where the waitress, a bouncing young female of forty, is supposed tohave made some impression on the susceptible Smallweed, of whom itmay be remarked that he is a weird changeling to whom years arenothing. He stands precociously possessed of centuries of owlishwisdom. If he ever lay in a cradle, it seems as if he must have lainthere in a tail-coat. He has an old, old eye, has Smallweed; and hedrinks and smokes in a monkeyish way; and his neck is stiff in hiscollar; and he is never to be taken in; and he knows all about it,whatever it is. In short, in his bringing up he has been so nursed byLaw and Equity that he has become a kind of fossil imp, to accountfor whose terrestrial existence it is reported at the public officesthat his father was John Doe and his mother the only female member ofthe Roe family, also that his first long-clothes were made from ablue bag.
Into the dining-house, unaffected by the seductive show in the windowof artificially whitened cauliflowers and poultry, verdant baskets ofpeas, coolly blooming cucumbers, and joints ready for the spit, Mr.Smallweed leads the way. They know him there and defer to him. He hashis favourite box, he bespeaks all the papers, he is down upon baldpatriarchs, who keep them more than ten minutes afterwards. It is ofno use trying him with anything less than a full-sized "bread" orproposing to him any joint in cut unless it is in the very best cut.In the matter of gravy he is adamant.
Conscious of his elfin power and submitting to his dread experience,Mr. Guppy consults him in the choice of that day's banquet, turningan appealing look towards him as the waitress repeats the catalogueof viands and saying "What do YOU take, Chick?" Chick, out of theprofundity of his artfulness, preferring "veal and ham and Frenchbeans--and don't you forget the stuffing, Polly" (with an unearthlycock of his venerable eye), Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling give the likeorder. Three pint pots of half-and-half are superadded. Quickly thewaitress returns bearing what is apparently a model of the Tower ofBabel but what is really a pile of plates and flat tin dish-covers.Mr. Smallweed, approving of what is set before him, conveysintelligent benignity into his ancient eye and winks upon her. Then,amid a constant coming in, and going out, and running about, and aclatter of crockery, and a rumbling up and down of the machine whichbrings the nice cuts from the kitchen, and a shrill crying for morenice cuts down the speaking-pipe, and a shrill reckoning of the costof nice cuts that have been disposed of, and a general flush andsteam of hot joints, cut and uncut, and a considerably heatedatmosphere in which the soiled knives and tablecloths seem to breakout spontaneously into eruptions of grease and blotches of beer, thelegal triumvirate appease their appetites.
Mr. Jobling is buttoned up closer than mere adornment might require.His hat presents at the rims a peculiar appearance of a glisteningnature, as if it had been a favourite snail-promenade. The samephenomenon is visible on some parts of his coat, and particularly atthe seams. He has the faded appearance of a gentleman in embarrassedcircumstances; even his light whiskers droop with something of ashabby air.
His appetite is so vigorous that it suggests spare living for somelittle time back. He makes such a speedy end of his plate of veal andham, bringing it to a close while his companions are yet midway intheirs, that Mr. Guppy proposes another. "Thank you, Guppy," says Mr.Jobling, "I really don't know but what I WILL take another."
Another being brought, he falls to with great goodwill.
Mr. Guppy takes silent notice of him at intervals until he is halfway through this second plate and stops to take an enjoying pull athis pint pot of half-and-half (also renewed) and stretches out hislegs and rubs his hands. Beholding him in which glow of contentment,Mr. Guppy says, "You are a man again, Tony!"
"Well, not quite yet," says Mr. Jobling. "Say, just born."
"Will you take any other vegetables? Grass? Peas? Summer cabbage?"
"Thank you, Guppy," says Mr. Jobling. "I really don't know but what IWILL take summer cabbage."
Order given; with the sarcastic addition (from Mr. Smallweed) of"Without slugs, Polly!" And cabbage produced.
"I am growing up, Guppy," says Mr. Jobling, plying his knife and forkwith a relishing steadiness.
"Glad to hear it."
"In fact, I have just turned into my teens," says Mr. Jobling.
He says no more until he has performed his task, which he achieves asMessrs. Guppy and Smallweed finish theirs, thus getting over theground in excellent style and beating those two gentlemen easily by aveal and ham and a cabbage.
"Now, Small," says Mr. Guppy, "what would you recommend aboutpastry?"
"Marrow puddings," says Mr. Smallweed instantly.
"Aye, aye!" cries Mr. Jobling with an arch look. "You're there, areyou? Thank you, Mr. Guppy, I don't know but what I WILL take a marrowpudding."
Three marrow puddings being produced, Mr. Jobling adds in a pleasanthumour that he is coming of age fast. To these succeed, by command ofMr. Smallweed, "three Cheshires," and to those "three small rums."This apex of the entertainment happily reached, Mr. Jobling puts uphis legs on the carpeted seat (having his own side of the box tohimself), leans against the wall, and says, "I am grown up now,Guppy. I have arrived at maturity."
"What do you think, now," says Mr. Guppy, "about--you don't mindSmallweed?"
"Not the least in the world. I have the pleasure of drinking his goodhealth."
"Sir, to you!" says Mr. Smallweed.
"I was saying, what do you think NOW," pursues Mr. Guppy, "ofenlisting?"
"Why, what I may think after dinner," returns Mr. Jobling, "is onething, my dear Guppy, and what I may think before dinner is anotherthing. Still, even after dinner, I ask myself the question, What am Ito do? How am I to live? Ill fo manger, you know," says Mr. Jobling,pronouncing that word as if he meant a necessary fixture in anEnglish stable. "Ill fo manger. That's the French saying, andmangering is as necessary to me as it is to a Frenchman. Or more so."
Mr. Smallweed is decidedly of opinion "much more so."
"If any man had told me," pursues Jobling, "even so lately as whenyou and I had the frisk down in Lincolnshire, Guppy, and drove overto see that house at Castle Wold--"
Mr. Smallweed corrects him--Chesney Wold.
"Chesney Wold. (I thank my honourable friend for that cheer.) If anyman had told me then that I should be as hard up at the present timeas I literally find myself, I should have--well, I should havepitched into him," says Mr. Jobling, taking a little rum-and-waterwith an air of desperate resignation; "I should have let fly at hishead."
"Still, Tony, you were on the wrong side of the post then,"remonstrates Mr. Guppy. "You were talking about nothing else in thegig."
"Guppy," says Mr. Jobling, "I will not deny it. I was on the wrongside of the post. But I trusted to things coming round."
That very popular trust in flat things coming round! Not in theirbeing beaten round, or worked round, but in their "coming" round! Asthough a lunatic should trust in the world's "coming" triangular!
"I had confident expectations that things would come round and be allsquare," says Mr. Jobling with some vagueness of expression andperhaps of meaning too. "But I was disappointed. They never did. Andwhen it came to creditors making rows at the office and to peoplethat the office dealt with making complaints about dirty trifles ofborrowed money, why there was an end of that connexion. And of anynew professional connexion too, for if I was to give a referenceto-morrow, it would be mentioned and would sew me up. Then what's afellow to do? I have been keeping out of the way and living cheapdown about the market-gardens, but what's the use of living cheapwhen you have got no money? You might as well live dear."
"Better," Mr. Smallweed thinks.
"Certainly. It's the fashionable way; and fashion and whiskers havebeen my weaknesses, and I don't care who knows it," says Mr. Jobling."They are great weaknesses--Damme, sir, they are great. Well,"proceeds Mr. Jobling after a defiant visit to his rum-and-water,"what can a fellow do, I ask you, BUT enlist?"
Mr. Guppy comes more fully into the conversation to state what, inhis opinion, a fellow can do. His manner is the gravely impressivemanner of a man who has not committed himself in life otherwise thanas he has become the victim of a tender sorrow of the heart.
"Jobling," says Mr. Guppy, "myself and our mutual friend Smallweed--"
Mr. Smallweed modestly observes, "Gentlemen both!" and drinks.
"--Have had a little conversation on this matter more than once sinceyou--"
"Say, got the sack!" cries Mr. Jobling bitterly. "Say it, Guppy. Youmean it."
"No-o-o! Left the Inn," Mr. Smallweed delicately suggests.
"Since you left the Inn, Jobling," says Mr. Guppy; "and I havementioned to our mutual friend Smallweed a plan I have lately thoughtof proposing. You know Snagsby the stationer?"
"I know there is such a stationer," returns Mr. Jobling. "He was notours, and I am not acquainted with him."
"He IS ours, Jobling, and I AM acquainted with him," Mr. Guppyretorts. "Well, sir! I have lately become better acquainted with himthrough some accidental circumstances that have made me a visitor ofhis in private life. Those circumstances it is not necessary to offerin argument. They may--or they may not--have some reference to asubject which may--or may not--have cast its shadow on my existence."
As it is Mr. Guppy's perplexing way with boastful misery to tempt hisparticular friends into this subject, and the moment they touch it,to turn on them with that trenchant severity about the chords in thehuman mind, both Mr. Jobling and Mr. Smallweed decline the pitfall byremaining silent.
"Such things may be," repeats Mr. Guppy, "or they may not be. Theyare no part of the case. It is enough to mention that both Mr. andMrs. Snagsby are very willing to oblige me and that Snagsby has, inbusy times, a good deal of copying work to give out. He has allTulkinghorn's, and an excellent business besides. I believe if ourmutual friend Smallweed were put into the box, he could prove this?"
Mr. Smallweed nods and appears greedy to be sworn.
"Now, gentlemen of the jury," says Mr. Guppy, "--I mean, now,Jobling--you may say this is a poor prospect of a living. Granted.But it's better than nothing, and better than enlistment. You wanttime. There must be time for these late affairs to blow over. Youmight live through it on much worse terms than by writing forSnagsby."
Mr. Jobling is about to interrupt when the sagacious Smallweed checkshim with a dry cough and the words, "Hem! Shakspeare!"
"There are two branches to this subject, Jobling," says Mr. Guppy."That is the first. I come to the second. You know Krook, theChancellor, across the lane. Come, Jobling," says Mr. Guppy in hisencouraging cross-examination-tone, "I think you know Krook, theChancellor, across the lane?"
"I know him by sight," says Mr. Jobling.
"You know him by sight. Very well. And you know little Flite?"
"Everybody knows her," says Mr. Jobling.
"Everybody knows her. VERY well. Now it has been one of my duties oflate to pay Flite a certain weekly allowance, deducting from it theamount of her weekly rent, which I have paid (in consequence ofinstructions I have received) to Krook himself, regularly in herpresence. This has brought me into communication with Krook and intoa knowledge of his house and his habits. I know he has a room to let.You may live there at a very low charge under any name you like, asquietly as if you were a hundred miles off. He'll ask no questionsand would accept you as a tenant at a word from me--before the clockstrikes, if you chose. And I tell you another thing, Jobling," saysMr. Guppy, who has suddenly lowered his voice and become familiaragain, "he's an extraordinary old chap--always rummaging among alitter of papers and grubbing away at teaching himself to read andwrite, without getting on a bit, as it seems to me. He is a mostextraordinary old chap, sir. I don't know but what it might be wortha fellow's while to look him up a bit."
"You don't mean--" Mr. Jobling begins.
"I mean," returns Mr. Guppy, shrugging his shoulders with becomingmodesty, "that I can't make him out. I appeal to our mutual friendSmallweed whether he has or has not heard me remark that I can't makehim out."
Mr. Smallweed bears the concise testimony, "A few!"
"I have seen something of the profession and something of life,Tony," says Mr. Guppy, "and it's seldom I can't make a man out, moreor less. But such an old card as this, so deep, so sly, and secret(though I don't believe he is ever sober), I never came across. Now,he must be precious old, you know, and he has not a soul about him,and he is reported to be immensely rich; and whether he is asmuggler, or a receiver, or an unlicensed pawnbroker, or amoney-lender--all of which I have thought likely at differenttimes--it might pay you to knock up a sort of knowledge of him. Idon't see why you shouldn't go in for it, when everything elsesuits."
Mr. Jobling, Mr. Guppy, and Mr. Smallweed all lean their elbows onthe table and their chins upon their hands, and look at the ceiling.After a time, they all drink, slowly lean back, put their hands intheir pockets, and look at one another.
"If I had the energy I once possessed, Tony!" says Mr. Guppy with asigh. "But there are chords in the human mind--"
Expressing the remainder of the desolate sentiment in rum-and-water,Mr. Guppy concludes by resigning the adventure to Tony Jobling andinforming him that during the vacation and while things are slack,his purse, "as far as three or four or even five pound goes," will beat his disposal. "For never shall it be said," Mr. Guppy adds withemphasis, "that William Guppy turned his back upon his friend!"
The latter part of the proposal is so directly to the purpose thatMr. Jobling says with emotion, "Guppy, my trump, your fist!" Mr.Guppy presents it, saying, "Jobling, my boy, there it is!" Mr.Jobling returns, "Guppy, we have been pals now for some years!" Mr.Guppy replies, "Jobling, we have."
They then shake hands, and Mr. Jobling adds in a feeling manner,"Thank you, Guppy, I don't know but what I WILL take another glassfor old acquaintance sake."
"Krook's last lodger died there," observes Mr. Guppy in an incidentalway.
"Did he though!" says Mr. Jobling.
"There was a verdict. Accidental death. You don't mind that?"
"No," says Mr. Jobling, "I don't mind it; but he might as well havedied somewhere else. It's devilish odd that he need go and die at MYplace!" Mr. Jobling quite resents this liberty, several timesreturning to it with such remarks as, "There are places enough to diein, I should think!" or, "He wouldn't have liked my dying at HISplace, I dare say!"
However, the compact being virtually made, Mr. Guppy proposes todispatch the trusty Smallweed to ascertain if Mr. Krook is at home,as in that case they may complete the negotiation without delay. Mr.Jobling approving, Smallweed puts himself under the tall hat andconveys it out of the dining-rooms in the Guppy manner. He soonreturns with the intelligence that Mr. Krook is at home and that hehas seen him through the shop-door, sitting in the back premises,sleeping "like one o'clock."
"Then I'll pay," says Mr. Guppy, "and we'll go and see him. Small,what will it be?"
Mr. Smallweed, compelling the attendance of the waitress with onehitch of his eyelash, instantly replies as follows: "Four veals andhams is three, and four potatoes is three and four, and one summercabbage is three and six, and three marrows is four and six, and sixbreads is five, and three Cheshires is five and three, and fourhalf-pints of half-and-half is six and three, and four small rums iseight and three, and three Pollys is eight and six. Eight and six inhalf a sovereign, Polly, and eighteenpence out!"
Not at all excited by these stupendous calculations, Smallweeddismisses his friends with a cool nod and remains behind to take alittle admiring notice of Polly, as opportunity may serve, and toread the daily papers, which are so very large in proportion tohimself, shorn of his hat, that when he holds up the Times to run hiseye over the columns, he seems to have retired for the night and tohave disappeared under the bedclothes.
Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling repair to the rag and bottle shop, wherethey find Krook still sleeping like one o'clock, that is to say,breathing stertorously with his chin upon his breast and quiteinsensible to any external sounds or even to gentle shaking. On thetable beside him, among the usual lumber, stand an empty gin-bottleand a glass. The unwholesome air is so stained with this liquor thateven the green eyes of the cat upon her shelf, as they open and shutand glimmer on the visitors, look drunk.
"Hold up here!" says Mr. Guppy, giving the relaxed figure of the oldman another shake. "Mr. Krook! Halloa, sir!"
But it would seem as easy to wake a bundle of old clothes with aspirituous heat smouldering in it. "Did you ever see such a stupor ashe falls into, between drink and sleep?" says Mr. Guppy.
"If this is his regular sleep," returns Jobling, rather alarmed,"it'll last a long time one of these days, I am thinking."
"It's always more like a fit than a nap," says Mr. Guppy, shaking himagain. "Halloa, your lordship! Why, he might be robbed fifty timesover! Open your eyes!"
After much ado, he opens them, but without appearing to see hisvisitors or any other objects. Though he crosses one leg on another,and folds his hands, and several times closes and opens his parchedlips, he seems to all intents and purposes as insensible as before.
"He is alive, at any rate," says Mr. Guppy. "How are you, my LordChancellor. I have brought a friend of mine, sir, on a little matterof business."
The old man still sits, often smacking his dry lips without the leastconsciousness. After some minutes he makes an attempt to rise. Theyhelp him up, and he staggers against the wall and stares at them.
"How do you do, Mr. Krook?" says Mr. Guppy in some discomfiture. "Howdo you do, sir? You are looking charming, Mr. Krook. I hope you arepretty well?"
The old man, in aiming a purposeless blow at Mr. Guppy, or atnothing, feebly swings himself round and comes with his face againstthe wall. So he remains for a minute or two, heaped up against it,and then staggers down the shop to the front door. The air, themovement in the court, the lapse of time, or the combination of thesethings recovers him. He comes back pretty steadily, adjusting his furcap on his head and looking keenly at them.
"Your servant, gentlemen; I've been dozing. Hi! I am hard to wake,odd times."
"Rather so, indeed, sir," responds Mr. Guppy.
"What? You've been a-trying to do it, have you?" says the suspiciousKrook.
"Only a little," Mr. Guppy explains.
The old man's eye resting on the empty bottle, he takes it up,examines it, and slowly tilts it upside down.
"I say!" he cries like the hobgoblin in the story. "Somebody's beenmaking free here!"
"I assure you we found it so," says Mr. Guppy. "Would you allow me toget it filled for you?"
"Yes, certainly I would!" cries Krook in high glee. "Certainly Iwould! Don't mention it! Get it filled next door--Sol's Arms--theLord Chancellor's fourteenpenny. Bless you, they know ME!"
He so presses the empty bottle upon Mr. Guppy that that gentleman,with a nod to his friend, accepts the trust and hurries out andhurries in again with the bottle filled. The old man receives it inhis arms like a beloved grandchild and pats it tenderly.
"But, I say," he whispers, with his eyes screwed up, after tastingit, "this ain't the Lord Chancellor's fourteenpenny. This iseighteenpenny!"
"I thought you might like that better," says Mr. Guppy.
"You're a nobleman, sir," returns Krook with another taste, and hishot breath seems to come towards them like a flame. "You're a baronof the land."
Taking advantage of this auspicious moment, Mr. Guppy presents hisfriend under the impromptu name of Mr. Weevle and states the objectof their visit. Krook, with his bottle under his arm (he never getsbeyond a certain point of either drunkenness or sobriety), takes timeto survey his proposed lodger and seems to approve of him. "You'dlike to see the room, young man?" he says. "Ah! It's a good room!Been whitewashed. Been cleaned down with soft soap and soda. Hi! It'sworth twice the rent, letting alone my company when you want it andsuch a cat to keep the mice away."
Commending the room after this manner, the old man takes themupstairs, where indeed they do find it cleaner than it used to be andalso containing some old articles of furniture which he has dug upfrom his inexhaustible stores. The terms are easily concluded--forthe Lord Chancellor cannot be hard on Mr. Guppy, associated as he iswith Kenge and Carboy, Jarndyce and Jarndyce, and other famous claimson his professional consideration--and it is agreed that Mr. Weevleshall take possession on the morrow. Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy thenrepair to Cook's Court, Cursitor Street, where the personalintroduction of the former to Mr. Snagsby is effected and (moreimportant) the vote and interest of Mrs. Snagsby are secured. Theythen report progress to the eminent Smallweed, waiting at the officein his tall hat for that purpose, and separate, Mr. Guppy explainingthat he would terminate his little entertainment by standing treat atthe play but that there are chords in the human mind which wouldrender it a hollow mockery.
On the morrow, in the dusk of evening, Mr. Weevle modestly appears atKrook's, by no means incommoded with luggage, and establishes himselfin his new lodging, where the two eyes in the shutters stare at himin his sleep, as if they were full of wonder. On the following dayMr. Weevle, who is a handy good-for-nothing kind of young fellow,borrows a needle and thread of Miss Flite and a hammer of hislandlord and goes to work devising apologies for window-curtains, andknocking up apologies for shelves, and hanging up his two teacups,milkpot, and crockery sundries on a pennyworth of little hooks, likea shipwrecked sailor making the best of it.
But what Mr. Weevle prizes most of all his few possessions (nextafter his light whiskers, for which he has an attachment that onlywhiskers can awaken in the breast of man) is a choice collection ofcopper-plate impressions from that truly national work The Divinitiesof Albion, or Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty, representing ladiesof title and fashion in every variety of smirk that art, combinedwith capital, is capable of producing. With these magnificentportraits, unworthily confined in a band-box during his seclusionamong the market-gardens, he decorates his apartment; and as theGalaxy Gallery of British Beauty wears every variety of fancy dress,plays every variety of musical instrument, fondles every variety ofdog, ogles every variety of prospect, and is backed up by everyvariety of flower-pot and balustrade, the result is very imposing.
But fashion is Mr. Weevle's, as it was Tony Jobling's, weakness. Toborrow yesterday's paper from the Sol's Arms of an evening and readabout the brilliant and distinguished meteors that are shootingacross the fashionable sky in every direction is unspeakableconsolation to him. To know what member of what brilliant anddistinguished circle accomplished the brilliant and distinguishedfeat of joining it yesterday or contemplates the no less brilliantand distinguished feat of leaving it to-morrow gives him a thrill ofjoy. To be informed what the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty isabout, and means to be about, and what Galaxy marriages are on thetapis, and what Galaxy rumours are in circulation, is to becomeacquainted with the most glorious destinies of mankind. Mr. Weevlereverts from this intelligence to the Galaxy portraits implicated,and seems to know the originals, and to be known of them.
For the rest he is a quiet lodger, full of handy shifts and devicesas before mentioned, able to cook and clean for himself as well as tocarpenter, and developing social inclinations after the shades ofevening have fallen on the court. At those times, when he is notvisited by Mr. Guppy or by a small light in his likeness quenched ina dark hat, he comes out of his dull room--where he has inherited thedeal wilderness of desk bespattered with a rain of ink--and talks toKrook or is "very free," as they call it in the court, commendingly,with any one disposed for conversation. Wherefore, Mrs. Piper, wholeads the court, is impelled to offer two remarks to Mrs. Perkins:firstly, that if her Johnny was to have whiskers, she could wish 'emto be identically like that young man's; and secondly, "Mark mywords, Mrs. Perkins, ma'am, and don't you be surprised, Lord blessyou, if that young man comes in at last for old Krook's money!"



CHAPTER XXI
The Smallweed Family

In a rather ill-favoured and ill-savoured neighbourhood, though oneof its rising grounds bears the name of Mount Pleasant, the ElfinSmallweed, christened Bartholomew and known on the domestic hearth asBart, passes that limited portion of his time on which the office andits contingencies have no claim. He dwells in a little narrow street,always solitary, shady, and sad, closely bricked in on all sides likea tomb, but where there yet lingers the stump of an old forest treewhose flavour is about as fresh and natural as the Smallweed smack ofyouth.
There has been only one child in the Smallweed family for severalgenerations. Little old men and women there have been, but no child,until Mr. Smallweed's grandmother, now living, became weak in herintellect and fell (for the first time) into a childish state. Withsuch infantine graces as a total want of observation, memory,understanding, and interest, and an eternal disposition to fallasleep over the fire and into it, Mr. Smallweed's grandmother hasundoubtedly brightened the family.
Mr. Smallweed's grandfather is likewise of the party. He is in ahelpless condition as to his lower, and nearly so as to his upper,limbs, but his mind is unimpaired. It holds, as well as it ever held,the first four rules of arithmetic and a certain small collection ofthe hardest facts. In respect of ideality, reverence, wonder, andother such phrenological attributes, it is no worse off than it usedto be. Everything that Mr. Smallweed's grandfather ever put away inhis mind was a grub at first, and is a grub at last. In all his lifehe has never bred a single butterfly.
The father of this pleasant grandfather, of the neighbourhood ofMount Pleasant, was a horny-skinned, two-legged, money-gettingspecies of spider who spun webs to catch unwary flies and retiredinto holes until they were entrapped. The name of this old pagan'sgod was Compound Interest. He lived for it, married it, died of it.Meeting with a heavy loss in an honest little enterprise in which allthe loss was intended to have been on the other side, he brokesomething--something necessary to his existence, therefore itcouldn't have been his heart--and made an end of his career. As hischaracter was not good, and he had been bred at a charity school in acomplete course, according to question and answer, of those ancientpeople the Amorites and Hittites, he was frequently quoted as anexample of the failure of education.
His spirit shone through his son, to whom he had always preached of"going out" early in life and whom he made a clerk in a sharpscrivener's office at twelve years old. There the young gentlemanimproved his mind, which was of a lean and anxious character, anddeveloping the family gifts, gradually elevated himself into thediscounting profession. Going out early in life and marrying late, ashis father had done before him, he too begat a lean andanxious-minded son, who in his turn, going out early in life andmarrying late, became the father of Bartholomew and Judith Smallweed,twins. During the whole time consumed in the slow growth of thisfamily tree, the house of Smallweed, always early to go out and lateto marry, has strengthened itself in its practical character, hasdiscarded all amusements, discountenanced all story-books,fairy-tales, fictions, and fables, and banished all levitieswhatsoever. Hence the gratifying fact that it has had no child bornto it and that the complete little men and women whom it has producedhave been observed to bear a likeness to old monkeys with somethingdepressing on their minds.
At the present time, in the dark little parlour certain feet belowthe level of the street--a grim, hard, uncouth parlour, onlyornamented with the coarsest of baize table-covers, and the hardestof sheet-iron tea-trays, and offering in its decorative character nobad allegorical representation of Grandfather Smallweed'smind--seated in two black horsehair porter's chairs, one on each sideof the fire-place, the superannuated Mr. and Mrs. Smallweed whileaway the rosy hours. On the stove are a couple of trivets for thepots and kettles which it is Grandfather Smallweed's usual occupationto watch, and projecting from the chimney-piece between them is asort of brass gallows for roasting, which he also superintends whenit is in action. Under the venerable Mr. Smallweed's seat and guardedby his spindle legs is a drawer in his chair, reported to containproperty to a fabulous amount. Beside him is a spare cushion withwhich he is always provided in order that he may have something tothrow at the venerable partner of his respected age whenever shemakes an allusion to money--a subject on which he is particularlysensitive.
"And where's Bart?" Grandfather Smallweed inquires of Judy, Bart'stwin sister.
"He an't come in yet," says Judy.
"It's his tea-time, isn't it?"
"No."
"How much do you mean to say it wants then?"
"Ten minutes."
"Hey?"
"Ten minutes." (Loud on the part of Judy.)
"Ho!" says Grandfather Smallweed. "Ten minutes."
Grandmother Smallweed, who has been mumbling and shaking her head atthe trivets, hearing figures mentioned, connects them with money andscreeches like a horrible old parrot without any plumage, "Tenten-pound notes!"
Grandfather Smallweed immediately throws the cushion at her.
"Drat you, be quiet!" says the good old man.
The effect of this act of jaculation is twofold. It not only doublesup Mrs. Smallweed's head against the side of her porter's chair andcauses her to present, when extricated by her granddaughter, a highlyunbecoming state of cap, but the necessary exertion recoils on Mr.Smallweed himself, whom it throws back into HIS porter's chair like abroken puppet. The excellent old gentleman being at these times amere clothes-bag with a black skull-cap on the top of it, does notpresent a very animated appearance until he has undergone the twooperations at the hands of his granddaughter of being shaken up likea great bottle and poked and punched like a great bolster. Someindication of a neck being developed in him by these means, he andthe sharer of his life's evening again fronting one another in theirtwo porter's chairs, like a couple of sentinels long forgotten ontheir post by the Black Serjeant, Death.
Judy the twin is worthy company for these associates. She is soindubitably sister to Mr. Smallweed the younger that the two kneadedinto one would hardly make a young person of average proportions,while she so happily exemplifies the before-mentioned family likenessto the monkey tribe that attired in a spangled robe and cap she mightwalk about the table-land on the top of a barrel-organ withoutexciting much remark as an unusual specimen. Under existingcircumstances, however, she is dressed in a plain, spare gown ofbrown stuff.
Judy never owned a doll, never heard of Cinderella, never played atany game. She once or twice fell into children's company when she wasabout ten years old, but the children couldn't get on with Judy, andJudy couldn't get on with them. She seemed like an animal of anotherspecies, and there was instinctive repugnance on both sides. It isvery doubtful whether Judy knows how to laugh. She has so rarely seenthe thing done that the probabilities are strong the other way. Ofanything like a youthful laugh, she certainly can have no conception.If she were to try one, she would find her teeth in her way,modelling that action of her face, as she has unconsciously modelledall its other expressions, on her pattern of sordid age. Such isJudy.
And her twin brother couldn't wind up a top for his life. He knows nomore of Jack the Giant Killer or of Sinbad the Sailor than he knowsof the people in the stars. He could as soon play at leap-frog or atcricket as change into a cricket or a frog himself. But he is so muchthe better off than his sister that on his narrow world of fact anopening has dawned into such broader regions as lie within the ken ofMr. Guppy. Hence his admiration and his emulation of that shiningenchanter.
Judy, with a gong-like clash and clatter, sets one of the sheet-irontea-trays on the table and arranges cups and saucers. The bread sheputs on in an iron basket, and the butter (and not much of it) in asmall pewter plate. Grandfather Smallweed looks hard after the tea asit is served out and asks Judy where the girl is.
"Charley, do you mean?" says Judy.
"Hey?" from Grandfather Smallweed.
"Charley, do you mean?"
This touches a spring in Grandmother Smallweed, who, chuckling asusual at the trivets, cries, "Over the water! Charley over the water,Charley over the water, over the water to Charley, Charley over thewater, over the water to Charley!" and becomes quite energetic aboutit. Grandfather looks at the cushion but has not sufficientlyrecovered his late exertion.
"Ha!" he says when there is silence. "If that's her name. She eats adeal. It would be better to allow her for her keep."
Judy, with her brother's wink, shakes her head and purses up hermouth into no without saying it.
"No?" returns the old man. "Why not?"
"She'd want sixpence a day, and we can do it for less," says Judy.
"Sure?"
Judy answers with a nod of deepest meaning and calls, as she scrapesthe butter on the loaf with every precaution against waste and cutsit into slices, "You, Charley, where are you?" Timidly obedient tothe summons, a little girl in a rough apron and a large bonnet, withher hands covered with soap and water and a scrubbing brush in one ofthem, appears, and curtsys.
"What work are you about now?" says Judy, making an ancient snap ather like a very sharp old beldame.
"I'm a-cleaning the upstairs back room, miss," replies Charley.
"Mind you do it thoroughly, and don't loiter. Shirking won't do forme. Make haste! Go along!" cries Judy with a stamp upon the ground."You girls are more trouble than you're worth, by half."
On this severe matron, as she returns to her task of scraping thebutter and cutting the bread, falls the shadow of her brother,looking in at the window. For whom, knife and loaf in hand, she opensthe street-door.
"Aye, aye, Bart!" says Grandfather Smallweed. "Here you are, hey?"
"Here I am," says Bart.
"Been along with your friend again, Bart?"
Small nods.
"Dining at his expense, Bart?"
Small nods again.
"That's right. Live at his expense as much as you can, and takewarning by his foolish example. That's the use of such a friend. Theonly use you can put him to," says the venerable sage.
His grandson, without receiving this good counsel as dutifully as hemight, honours it with all such acceptance as may lie in a slightwink and a nod and takes a chair at the tea-table. The four old facesthen hover over teacups like a company of ghastly cherubim, Mrs.Smallweed perpetually twitching her head and chattering at thetrivets and Mr. Smallweed requiring to be repeatedly shaken up like alarge black draught.
"Yes, yes," says the good old gentleman, reverting to his lesson ofwisdom. "That's such advice as your father would have given you,Bart. You never saw your father. More's the pity. He was my trueson." Whether it is intended to be conveyed that he was particularlypleasant to look at, on that account, does not appear.
"He was my true son," repeats the old gentleman, folding his breadand butter on his knee, "a good accountant, and died fifteen yearsago."
Mrs. Smallweed, following her usual instinct, breaks out with"Fifteen hundred pound. Fifteen hundred pound in a black box, fifteenhundred pound locked up, fifteen hundred pound put away and hid!" Herworthy husband, setting aside his bread and butter, immediatelydischarges the cushion at her, crushes her against the side of herchair, and falls back in his own, overpowered. His appearance, aftervisiting Mrs. Smallweed with one of these admonitions, isparticularly impressive and not wholly prepossessing, firstly becausethe exertion generally twists his black skull-cap over one eye andgives him an air of goblin rakishness, secondly because he muttersviolent imprecations against Mrs. Smallweed, and thirdly because thecontrast between those powerful expressions and his powerless figureis suggestive of a baleful old malignant who would be very wicked ifhe could. All this, however, is so common in the Smallweed familycircle that it produces no impression. The old gentleman is merelyshaken and has his internal feathers beaten up, the cushion isrestored to its usual place beside him, and the old lady, perhapswith her cap adjusted and perhaps not, is planted in her chair again,ready to be bowled down like a ninepin.
Some time elapses in the present instance before the old gentleman issufficiently cool to resume his discourse, and even then he mixes itup with several edifying expletives addressed to the unconsciouspartner of his bosom, who holds communication with nothing on earthbut the trivets. As thus: "If your father, Bart, had lived longer, hemight have been worth a deal of money--you brimstone chatterer!--butjust as he was beginning to build up the house that he had beenmaking the foundations for, through many a year--you jade of amagpie, jackdaw, and poll-parrot, what do you mean!--he took ill anddied of a low fever, always being a sparing and a spare man, full ofbusiness care--I should like to throw a cat at you instead of acushion, and I will too if you make such a confounded fool ofyourself!--and your mother, who was a prudent woman as dry as a chip,just dwindled away like touchwood after you and Judy were born--youare an old pig. You are a brimstone pig. You're a head of swine!"
Judy, not interested in what she has often heard, begins to collectin a basin various tributary streams of tea, from the bottoms of cupsand saucers and from the bottom of the tea-pot for the littlecharwoman's evening meal. In like manner she gets together, in theiron bread-basket, as many outside fragments and worn-down heels ofloaves as the rigid economy of the house has left in existence.
"But your father and me were partners, Bart," says the old gentleman,"and when I am gone, you and Judy will have all there is. It's rarefor you both that you went out early in life--Judy to the flowerbusiness, and you to the law. You won't want to spend it. You'll getyour living without it, and put more to it. When I am gone, Judy willgo back to the flower business and you'll still stick to the law."
One might infer from Judy's appearance that her business rather laywith the thorns than the flowers, but she has in her time beenapprenticed to the art and mystery of artificial flower-making. Aclose observer might perhaps detect both in her eye and herbrother's, when their venerable grandsire anticipates his being gone,some little impatience to know when he may be going, and someresentful opinion that it is time he went.
"Now, if everybody has done," says Judy, completing her preparations,"I'll have that girl in to her tea. She would never leave off if shetook it by herself in the kitchen."
Charley is accordingly introduced, and under a heavy fire of eyes,sits down to her basin and a Druidical ruin of bread and butter. Inthe active superintendence of this young person, Judy Smallweedappears to attain a perfectly geological age and to date from theremotest periods. Her systematic manner of flying at her and pouncingon her, with or without pretence, whether or no, is wonderful,evincing an accomplishment in the art of girl-driving seldom reachedby the oldest practitioners.
"Now, don't stare about you all the afternoon," cries Judy, shakingher head and stamping her foot as she happens to catch the glancewhich has been previously sounding the basin of tea, "but take yourvictuals and get back to your work."
"Yes, miss," says Charley.
"Don't say yes," returns Miss Smallweed, "for I know what you girlsare. Do it without saying it, and then I may begin to believe you."
Charley swallows a great gulp of tea in token of submission and sodisperses the Druidical ruins that Miss Smallweed charges her not togormandize, which "in you girls," she observes, is disgusting.Charley might find some more difficulty in meeting her views on thegeneral subject of girls but for a knock at the door.
"See who it is, and don't chew when you open it!" cries Judy.
The object of her attentions withdrawing for the purpose, MissSmallweed takes that opportunity of jumbling the remainder of thebread and butter together and launching two or three dirty tea-cupsinto the ebb-tide of the basin of tea as a hint that she considersthe eating and drinking terminated.
"Now! Who is it, and what's wanted?" says the snappish Judy.
It is one Mr. George, it appears. Without other announcement orceremony, Mr. George walks in.
"Whew!" says Mr. George. "You are hot here. Always a fire, eh? Well!Perhaps you do right to get used to one." Mr. George makes the latterremark to himself as he nods to Grandfather Smallweed.
"Ho! It's you!" cries the old gentleman. "How de do? How de do?"
"Middling," replies Mr. George, taking a chair. "Your granddaughter Ihave had the honour of seeing before; my service to you, miss."
"This is my grandson," says Grandfather Smallweed. "You ha'n't seenhim before. He is in the law and not much at home."
"My service to him, too! He is like his sister. He is very like hissister. He is devilish like his sister," says Mr. George, laying agreat and not altogether complimentary stress on his last adjective.
"And how does the world use you, Mr. George?" Grandfather Smallweedinquires, slowly rubbing his legs.
"Pretty much as usual. Like a football."
He is a swarthy brown man of fifty, well made, and good looking, withcrisp dark hair, bright eyes, and a broad chest. His sinewy andpowerful hands, as sunburnt as his face, have evidently been used toa pretty rough life. What is curious about him is that he sitsforward on his chair as if he were, from long habit, allowing spacefor some dress or accoutrements that he has altogether laid aside.His step too is measured and heavy and would go well with a weightyclash and jingle of spurs. He is close-shaved now, but his mouth isset as if his upper lip had been for years familiar with a greatmoustache; and his manner of occasionally laying the open palm of hisbroad brown hand upon it is to the same effect. Altogether one mightguess Mr. George to have been a trooper once upon a time.
A special contrast Mr. George makes to the Smallweed family. Trooperwas never yet billeted upon a household more unlike him. It is abroadsword to an oyster-knife. His developed figure and their stuntedforms, his large manner filling any amount of room and their littlenarrow pinched ways, his sounding voice and their sharp spare tones,are in the strongest and the strangest opposition. As he sits in themiddle of the grim parlour, leaning a little forward, with his handsupon his thighs and his elbows squared, he looks as though, if heremained there long, he would absorb into himself the whole familyand the whole four-roomed house, extra little back-kitchen and all.
"Do you rub your legs to rub life into 'em?" he asks of GrandfatherSmallweed after looking round the room.
"Why, it's partly a habit, Mr. George, and--yes--it partly helps thecirculation," he replies.
"The cir-cu-la-tion!" repeats Mr. George, folding his arms upon hischest and seeming to become two sizes larger. "Not much of that, Ishould think."
"Truly I'm old, Mr. George," says Grandfather Smallweed. "But I cancarry my years. I'm older than HER," nodding at his wife, "and seewhat she is? You're a brimstone chatterer!" with a sudden revival ofhis late hostility.
"Unlucky old soul!" says Mr. George, turning his head in thatdirection. "Don't scold the old lady. Look at her here, with her poorcap half off her head and her poor hair all in a muddle. Hold up,ma'am. That's better. There we are! Think of your mother, Mr.Smallweed," says Mr. George, coming back to his seat from assistingher, "if your wife an't enough."
"I suppose you were an excellent son, Mr. George?" the old man hintswith a leer.
The colour of Mr. George's face rather deepens as he replies, "Whyno. I wasn't."
"I am astonished at it."
"So am I. I ought to have been a good son, and I think I meant tohave been one. But I wasn't. I was a thundering bad son, that's thelong and the short of it, and never was a credit to anybody."
"Surprising!" cries the old man.
"However," Mr. George resumes, "the less said about it, the betternow. Come! You know the agreement. Always a pipe out of the twomonths' interest! (Bosh! It's all correct. You needn't be afraid toorder the pipe. Here's the new bill, and here's the two months'interest-money, and a devil-and-all of a scrape it is to get ittogether in my business.)"
Mr. George sits, with his arms folded, consuming the family and theparlour while Grandfather Smallweed is assisted by Judy to two blackleathern cases out of a locked bureau, in one of which he secures thedocument he has just received, and from the other takes anothersimilar document which he hands to Mr. George, who twists it up for apipelight. As the old man inspects, through his glasses, everyup-stroke and down-stroke of both documents before he releases themfrom their leathern prison, and as he counts the money three timesover and requires Judy to say every word she utters at least twice,and is as tremulously slow of speech and action as it is possible tobe, this business is a long time in progress. When it is quiteconcluded, and not before, he disengages his ravenous eyes andfingers from it and answers Mr. George's last remark by saying,"Afraid to order the pipe? We are not so mercenary as that, sir.Judy, see directly to the pipe and the glass of cold brandy-and-waterfor Mr. George."
The sportive twins, who have been looking straight before them allthis time except when they have been engrossed by the black leatherncases, retire together, generally disdainful of the visitor, butleaving him to the old man as two young cubs might leave a travellerto the parental bear.
"And there you sit, I suppose, all the day long, eh?" says Mr. Georgewith folded arms.
"Just so, just so," the old man nods.
"And don't you occupy yourself at all?"
"I watch the fire--and the boiling and the roasting--"
"When there is any," says Mr. George with great expression.
"Just so. When there is any."
"Don't you read or get read to?"
The old man shakes his head with sharp sly triumph. "No, no. We havenever been readers in our family. It don't pay. Stuff. Idleness.Folly. No, no!"
"There's not much to choose between your two states," says thevisitor in a key too low for the old man's dull hearing as he looksfrom him to the old woman and back again. "I say!" in a louder voice.
"I hear you."
"You'll sell me up at last, I suppose, when I am a day in arrear."
"My dear friend!" cries Grandfather Smallweed, stretching out bothhands to embrace him. "Never! Never, my dear friend! But my friend inthe city that I got to lend you the money--HE might!"
"Oh! You can't answer for him?" says Mr. George, finishing theinquiry in his lower key with the words "You lying old rascal!"
"My dear friend, he is not to be depended on. I wouldn't trust him.He will have his bond, my dear friend."
"Devil doubt him," says Mr. George. Charley appearing with atray, on which are the pipe, a small paper of tobacco, and thebrandy-and-water, he asks her, "How do you come here! You haven't gotthe family face."
"I goes out to work, sir," returns Charley.
The trooper (if trooper he be or have been) takes her bonnet off,with a light touch for so strong a hand, and pats her on the head."You give the house almost a wholesome look. It wants a bit of youthas much as it wants fresh air." Then he dismisses her, lights hispipe, and drinks to Mr. Smallweed's friend in the city--the onesolitary flight of that esteemed old gentleman's imagination.
"So you think he might be hard upon me, eh?"
"I think he might--I am afraid he would. I have known him do it,"says Grandfather Smallweed incautiously, "twenty times."
Incautiously, because his stricken better-half, who has been dozingover the fire for some time, is instantly aroused and jabbers "Twentythousand pounds, twenty twenty-pound notes in a money-box, twentyguineas, twenty million twenty per cent, twenty--" and is then cutshort by the flying cushion, which the visitor, to whom this singularexperiment appears to be a novelty, snatches from her face as itcrushes her in the usual manner.
"You're a brimstone idiot. You're a scorpion--a brimstone scorpion!You're a sweltering toad. You're a chattering clattering broomstickwitch that ought to be burnt!" gasps the old man, prostrate in hischair. "My dear friend, will you shake me up a little?"
Mr. George, who has been looking first at one of them and then at theother, as if he were demented, takes his venerable acquaintance bythe throat on receiving this request, and dragging him upright in hischair as easily as if he were a doll, appears in two minds whether orno to shake all future power of cushioning out of him and shake himinto his grave. Resisting the temptation, but agitating him violentlyenough to make his head roll like a harlequin's, he puts him smartlydown in his chair again and adjusts his skull-cap with such a rubthat the old man winks with both eyes for a minute afterwards.
"O Lord!" gasps Mr. Smallweed. "That'll do. Thank you, my dearfriend, that'll do. Oh, dear me, I'm out of breath. O Lord!" And Mr.Smallweed says it not without evident apprehensions of his dearfriend, who still stands over him looming larger than ever.
The alarming presence, however, gradually subsides into its chair andfalls to smoking in long puffs, consoling itself with thephilosophical reflection, "The name of your friend in the city beginswith a D, comrade, and you're about right respecting the bond."
"Did you speak, Mr. George?" inquires the old man.
The trooper shakes his head, and leaning forward with his right elbowon his right knee and his pipe supported in that hand, while hisother hand, resting on his left leg, squares his left elbow in amartial manner, continues to smoke. Meanwhile he looks at Mr.Smallweed with grave attention and now and then fans the cloud ofsmoke away in order that he may see him the more clearly.
"I take it," he says, making just as much and as little change in hisposition as will enable him to reach the glass to his lips with around, full action, "that I am the only man alive (or dead either)that gets the value of a pipe out of YOU?"
"Well," returns the old man, "it's true that I don't see company, Mr.George, and that I don't treat. I can't afford to it. But as you, inyour pleasant way, made your pipe a condition--"
"Why, it's not for the value of it; that's no great thing. It was afancy to get it out of you. To have something in for my money."
"Ha! You're prudent, prudent, sir!" cries Grandfather Smallweed,rubbing his legs.
"Very. I always was." Puff. "It's a sure sign of my prudence that Iever found the way here." Puff. "Also, that I am what I am." Puff. "Iam well known to be prudent," says Mr. George, composedly smoking. "Irose in life that way."
"Don't be down-hearted, sir. You may rise yet."
Mr. George laughs and drinks.
"Ha'n't you no relations, now," asks Grandfather Smallweed with atwinkle in his eyes, "who would pay off this little principal or whowould lend you a good name or two that I could persuade my friend inthe city to make you a further advance upon? Two good names would besufficient for my friend in the city. Ha'n't you no such relations,Mr. George?"
Mr. George, still composedly smoking, replies, "If I had, I shouldn'ttrouble them. I have been trouble enough to my belongings in my day.It MAY be a very good sort of penitence in a vagabond, who has wastedthe best time of his life, to go back then to decent people that henever was a credit to and live upon them, but it's not my sort. Thebest kind of amends then for having gone away is to keep away, in myopinion."
"But natural affection, Mr. George," hints Grandfather Smallweed.
"For two good names, hey?" says Mr. George, shaking his head andstill composedly smoking. "No. That's not my sort either."
Grandfather Smallweed has been gradually sliding down in his chairsince his last adjustment and is now a bundle of clothes with a voicein it calling for Judy. That houri, appearing, shakes him up in theusual manner and is charged by the old gentleman to remain near him.For he seems chary of putting his visitor to the trouble of repeatinghis late attentions.
"Ha!" he observes when he is in trim again. "If you could have tracedout the captain, Mr. George, it would have been the making of you. Ifwhen you first came here, in consequence of our advertisement in thenewspapers--when I say 'our,' I'm alluding to the advertisements ofmy friend in the city, and one or two others who embark their capitalin the same way, and are so friendly towards me as sometimes to giveme a lift with my little pittance--if at that time you could havehelped us, Mr. George, it would have been the making of you."
"I was willing enough to be 'made,' as you call it," says Mr. George,smoking not quite so placidly as before, for since the entrance ofJudy he has been in some measure disturbed by a fascination, not ofthe admiring kind, which obliges him to look at her as she stands byher grandfather's chair, "but on the whole, I am glad I wasn't now."
"Why, Mr. George? In the name of--of brimstone, why?" saysGrandfather Smallweed with a plain appearance of exasperation.(Brimstone apparently suggested by his eye lighting on Mrs. Smallweedin her slumber.)
"For two reasons, comrade."
"And what two reasons, Mr. George? In the name of the--"
"Of our friend in the city?" suggests Mr. George, composedlydrinking.
"Aye, if you like. What two reasons?"
"In the first place," returns Mr. George, but still looking at Judyas if she being so old and so like her grandfather it is indifferentwhich of the two he addresses, "you gentlemen took me in. Youadvertised that Mr. Hawdon (Captain Hawdon, if you hold to the saying'Once a captain, always a captain') was to hear of something to hisadvantage."
"Well?" returns the old man shrilly and sharply.
"Well!" says Mr. George, smoking on. "It wouldn't have been much tohis advantage to have been clapped into prison by the whole bill andjudgment trade of London."
"How do you know that? Some of his rich relations might have paid hisdebts or compounded for 'em. Besides, he had taken US in. He owed usimmense sums all round. I would sooner have strangled him than had noreturn. If I sit here thinking of him," snarls the old man, holdingup his impotent ten fingers, "I want to strangle him now." And in asudden access of fury, he throws the cushion at the unoffending Mrs.Smallweed, but it passes harmlessly on one side of her chair.
"I don't need to be told," returns the trooper, taking his pipe fromhis lips for a moment and carrying his eyes back from following theprogress of the cushion to the pipe-bowl which is burning low, "thathe carried on heavily and went to ruin. I have been at his right handmany a day when he was charging upon ruin full-gallop. I was with himwhen he was sick and well, rich and poor. I laid this hand upon himafter he had run through everything and broken down everythingbeneath him--when he held a pistol to his head."
"I wish he had let it off," says the benevolent old man, "and blownhis head into as many pieces as he owed pounds!"
"That would have been a smash indeed," returns the trooper coolly;"any way, he had been young, hopeful, and handsome in the days goneby, and I am glad I never found him, when he was neither, to lead toa result so much to his advantage. That's reason number one."
"I hope number two's as good?" snarls the old man.
"Why, no. It's more of a selfish reason. If I had found him, I musthave gone to the other world to look. He was there."
"How do you know he was there?"
"He wasn't here."
"How do you know he wasn't here?"
"Don't lose your temper as well as your money," says Mr. George,calmly knocking the ashes out of his pipe. "He was drowned longbefore. I am convinced of it. He went over a ship's side. Whetherintentionally or accidentally, I don't know. Perhaps your friend inthe city does. Do you know what that tune is, Mr. Smallweed?" he addsafter breaking off to whistle one, accompanied on the table with theempty pipe.
"Tune!" replied the old man. "No. We never have tunes here."
"That's the Dead March in Saul. They bury soldiers to it,so it's the natural end of the subject. Now, if your prettygranddaughter--excuse me, miss--will condescend to take care of thispipe for two months, we shall save the cost of one next time. Goodevening, Mr. Smallweed!"
"My dear friend!" the old man gives him both his hands.
"So you think your friend in the city will be hard upon me if I fallin a payment?" says the trooper, looking down upon him like a giant.
"My dear friend, I am afraid he will," returns the old man, lookingup at him like a pygmy.
Mr. George laughs, and with a glance at Mr. Smallweed and a partingsalutation to the scornful Judy, strides out of the parlour, clashingimaginary sabres and other metallic appurtenances as he goes.
"You're a damned rogue," says the old gentleman, making a hideousgrimace at the door as he shuts it. "But I'll lime you, you dog, I'lllime you!"
After this amiable remark, his spirit soars into those enchantingregions of reflection which its education and pursuits have opened toit, and again he and Mrs. Smallweed while away the rosy hours, twounrelieved sentinels forgotten as aforesaid by the Black Serjeant.
While the twain are faithful to their post, Mr. George stridesthrough the streets with a massive kind of swagger and a grave-enoughface. It is eight o'clock now, and the day is fast drawing in. Hestops hard by Waterloo Bridge and reads a playbill, decides to go toAstley's Theatre. Being there, is much delighted with the horses andthe feats of strength; looks at the weapons with a critical eye;disapproves of the combats as giving evidences of unskilfulswordsmanship; but is touched home by the sentiments. In the lastscene, when the Emperor of Tartary gets up into a cart andcondescends to bless the united lovers by hovering over them with theUnion Jack, his eyelashes are moistened with emotion.
The theatre over, Mr. George comes across the water again and makeshis way to that curious region lying about the Haymarket andLeicester Square which is a centre of attraction to indifferentforeign hotels and indifferent foreigners, racket-courts,fighting-men, swordsmen, footguards, old china, gaming-houses,exhibitions, and a large medley of shabbiness and shrinking out ofsight. Penetrating to the heart of this region, he arrives by a courtand a long whitewashed passage at a great brick building composed ofbare walls, floors, roof-rafters, and skylights, on the front ofwhich, if it can be said to have any front, is painted GEORGE'SSHOOTING GALLERY, &c.
Into George's Shooting Gallery, &c., he goes; and in it there aregaslights (partly turned off now), and two whitened targets forrifle-shooting, and archery accommodation, and fencing appliances,and all necessaries for the British art of boxing. None of thesesports or exercises being pursued in George's Shooting Galleryto-night, which is so devoid of company that a little grotesque manwith a large head has it all to himself and lies asleep upon thefloor.
The little man is dressed something like a gunsmith, in a green-baizeapron and cap; and his face and hands are dirty with gunpowder andbegrimed with the loading of guns. As he lies in the light before aglaring white target, the black upon him shines again. Not far off isthe strong, rough, primitive table with a vice upon it at which hehas been working. He is a little man with a face all crushedtogether, who appears, from a certain blue and speckled appearancethat one of his cheeks presents, to have been blown up, in the way ofbusiness, at some odd time or times.
"Phil!" says the trooper in a quiet voice.
"All right!" cries Phil, scrambling to his feet.
"Anything been doing?"
"Flat as ever so much swipes," says Phil. "Five dozen rifle and adozen pistol. As to aim!" Phil gives a howl at the recollection.
"Shut up shop, Phil!"
As Phil moves about to execute this order, it appears that he islame, though able to move very quickly. On the speckled side of hisface he has no eyebrow, and on the other side he has a bushy blackone, which want of uniformity gives him a very singular and rathersinister appearance. Everything seems to have happened to his handsthat could possibly take place consistently with the retention of allthe fingers, for they are notched, and seamed, and crumpled all over.He appears to be very strong and lifts heavy benches about as if hehad no idea what weight was. He has a curious way of limping roundthe gallery with his shoulder against the wall and tacking off atobjects he wants to lay hold of instead of going straight to them,which has left a smear all round the four walls, conventionallycalled "Phil's mark."
This custodian of George's Gallery in George's absence concludes hisproceedings, when he has locked the great doors and turned out allthe lights but one, which he leaves to glimmer, by dragging out froma wooden cabin in a corner two mattresses and bedding. These beingdrawn to opposite ends of the gallery, the trooper makes his own bedand Phil makes his.
"Phil!" says the master, walking towards him without his coat andwaistcoat, and looking more soldierly than ever in his braces. "Youwere found in a doorway, weren't you?"
"Gutter," says Phil. "Watchman tumbled over me."
"Then vagabondizing came natural to YOU from the beginning."
"As nat'ral as possible," says Phil.
"Good night!"
"Good night, guv'ner."
Phil cannot even go straight to bed, but finds it necessary toshoulder round two sides of the gallery and then tack off at hismattress. The trooper, after taking a turn or two in therifle-distance and looking up at the moon now shining through theskylights, strides to his own mattress by a shorter route and goes tobed too.



CHAPTER XXII
Mr. Bucket

Allegory looks pretty cool in Lincoln's Inn Fields, though theevening is hot, for both Mr. Tulkinghorn's windows are wide open, andthe room is lofty, gusty, and gloomy. These may not be desirablecharacteristics when November comes with fog and sleet or Januarywith ice and snow, but they have their merits in the sultry longvacation weather. They enable Allegory, though it has cheeks likepeaches, and knees like bunches of blossoms, and rosy swellings forcalves to its legs and muscles to its arms, to look tolerably coolto-night.
Plenty of dust comes in at Mr. Tulkinghorn's windows, and plenty morehas generated among his furniture and papers. It lies thickeverywhere. When a breeze from the country that has lost its waytakes fright and makes a blind hurry to rush out again, it flings asmuch dust in the eyes of Allegory as the law--or Mr. Tulkinghorn, oneof its trustiest representatives--may scatter, on occasion, in theeyes of the laity.
In his lowering magazine of dust, the universal article into whichhis papers and himself, and all his clients, and all things of earth,animate and inanimate, are resolving, Mr. Tulkinghorn sits at one ofthe open windows enjoying a bottle of old port. Though a hard-grainedman, close, dry, and silent, he can enjoy old wine with the best. Hehas a priceless bin of port in some artful cellar under the Fields,which is one of his many secrets. When he dines alone in chambers, ashe has dined to-day, and has his bit of fish and his steak or chickenbrought in from the coffee-house, he descends with a candle to theechoing regions below the deserted mansion, and heralded by a remotereverberation of thundering doors, comes gravely back encircled by anearthy atmosphere and carrying a bottle from which he pours a radiantnectar, two score and ten years old, that blushes in the glass tofind itself so famous and fills the whole room with the fragrance ofsouthern grapes.
Mr. Tulkinghorn, sitting in the twilight by the open window, enjoyshis wine. As if it whispered to him of its fifty years of silence andseclusion, it shuts him up the closer. More impenetrable than ever,he sits, and drinks, and mellows as it were in secrecy, pondering atthat twilight hour on all the mysteries he knows, associated withdarkening woods in the country, and vast blank shut-up houses intown, and perhaps sparing a thought or two for himself, and hisfamily history, and his money, and his will--all a mystery to everyone--and that one bachelor friend of his, a man of the same mould anda lawyer too, who lived the same kind of life until he wasseventy-five years old, and then suddenly conceiving (as it issupposed) an impression that it was too monotonous, gave his goldwatch to his hair-dresser one summer evening and walked leisurelyhome to the Temple and hanged himself.
But Mr. Tulkinghorn is not alone to-night to ponder at his usuallength. Seated at the same table, though with his chair modestly anduncomfortably drawn a little way from it, sits a bald, mild, shiningman who coughs respectfully behind his hand when the lawyer bids himfill his glass.
"Now, Snagsby," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "to go over this odd storyagain."
"If you please, sir."
"You told me when you were so good as to step round here lastnight--"
"For which I must ask you to excuse me if it was a liberty, sir; butI remember that you had taken a sort of an interest in that person,and I thought it possible that you might--just--wish--to--"
Mr. Tulkinghorn is not the man to help him to any conclusion or toadmit anything as to any possibility concerning himself. So Mr.Snagsby trails off into saying, with an awkward cough, "I must askyou to excuse the liberty, sir, I am sure."
"Not at all," says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "You told me, Snagsby, that youput on your hat and came round without mentioning your intention toyour wife. That was prudent I think, because it's not a matter ofsuch importance that it requires to be mentioned."
"Well, sir," returns Mr. Snagsby, "you see, my little woman is--notto put too fine a point upon it--inquisitive. She's inquisitive. Poorlittle thing, she's liable to spasms, and it's good for her to haveher mind employed. In consequence of which she employs it--I shouldsay upon every individual thing she can lay hold of, whether itconcerns her or not--especially not. My little woman has a veryactive mind, sir."
Mr. Snagsby drinks and murmurs with an admiring cough behind hishand, "Dear me, very fine wine indeed!"
"Therefore you kept your visit to yourself last night?" says Mr.Tulkinghorn. "And to-night too?"
"Yes, sir, and to-night, too. My little woman is at present in--notto put too fine a point on it--in a pious state, or in what sheconsiders such, and attends the Evening Exertions (which is the namethey go by) of a reverend party of the name of Chadband. He has agreat deal of eloquence at his command, undoubtedly, but I am notquite favourable to his style myself. That's neither here nor there.My little woman being engaged in that way made it easier for me tostep round in a quiet manner."
Mr. Tulkinghorn assents. "Fill your glass, Snagsby."
"Thank you, sir, I am sure," returns the stationer with his cough ofdeference. "This is wonderfully fine wine, sir!"
"It is a rare wine now," says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "It is fifty yearsold."
"Is it indeed, sir? But I am not surprised to hear it, I am sure. Itmight be--any age almost." After rendering this general tribute tothe port, Mr. Snagsby in his modesty coughs an apology behind hishand for drinking anything so precious.
"Will you run over, once again, what the boy said?" asks Mr.Tulkinghorn, putting his hands into the pockets of his rustysmallclothes and leaning quietly back in his chair.
"With pleasure, sir."
Then, with fidelity, though with some prolixity, the law-stationerrepeats Jo's statement made to the assembled guests at his house. Oncoming to the end of his narrative, he gives a great start and breaksoff with, "Dear me, sir, I wasn't aware there was any other gentlemanpresent!"
Mr. Snagsby is dismayed to see, standing with an attentive facebetween himself and the lawyer at a little distance from the table, aperson with a hat and stick in his hand who was not there when hehimself came in and has not since entered by the door or by either ofthe windows. There is a press in the room, but its hinges have notcreaked, nor has a step been audible upon the floor. Yet this thirdperson stands there with his attentive face, and his hat and stick inhis hands, and his hands behind him, a composed and quiet listener.He is a stoutly built, steady-looking, sharp-eyed man in black, ofabout the middle-age. Except that he looks at Mr. Snagsby as if hewere going to take his portrait, there is nothing remarkable abouthim at first sight but his ghostly manner of appearing.
"Don't mind this gentleman," says Mr. Tulkinghorn in his quiet way."This is only Mr. Bucket."
"Oh, indeed, sir?" returns the stationer, expressing by a cough thathe is quite in the dark as to who Mr. Bucket may be.
"I wanted him to hear this story," says the lawyer, "because I havehalf a mind (for a reason) to know more of it, and he is veryintelligent in such things. What do you say to this, Bucket?"
"It's very plain, sir. Since our people have moved this boy on, andhe's not to be found on his old lay, if Mr. Snagsby don't object togo down with me to Tom-all-Alone's and point him out, we can have himhere in less than a couple of hours' time. I can do it without Mr.Snagsby, of course, but this is the shortest way."
"Mr. Bucket is a detective officer, Snagsby," says the lawyer inexplanation.
"Is he indeed, sir?" says Mr. Snagsby with a strong tendency in hisclump of hair to stand on end.
"And if you have no real objection to accompany Mr. Bucket to theplace in question," pursues the lawyer, "I shall feel obliged to youif you will do so."
In a moment's hesitation on the part of Mr. Snagsby, Bucket dips downto the bottom of his mind.
"Don't you be afraid of hurting the boy," he says. "You won't dothat. It's all right as far as the boy's concerned. We shall onlybring him here to ask him a question or so I want to put to him, andhe'll be paid for his trouble and sent away again. It'll be a goodjob for him. I promise you, as a man, that you shall see the boy sentaway all right. Don't you be afraid of hurting him; you an't going todo that."
"Very well, Mr. Tulkinghorn!" cries Mr. Snagsby cheerfully. Andreassured, "Since that's the case--"
"Yes! And lookee here, Mr. Snagsby," resumes Bucket, taking him asideby the arm, tapping him familiarly on the breast, and speaking in aconfidential tone. "You're a man of the world, you know, and a man ofbusiness, and a man of sense. That's what YOU are."
"I am sure I am much obliged to you for your good opinion," returnsthe stationer with his cough of modesty, "but--"
"That's what YOU are, you know," says Bucket. "Now, it an't necessaryto say to a man like you, engaged in your business, which is abusiness of trust and requires a person to be wide awake and have hissenses about him and his head screwed on tight (I had an uncle inyour business once)--it an't necessary to say to a man like you thatit's the best and wisest way to keep little matters like this quiet.Don't you see? Quiet!"
"Certainly, certainly," returns the other.
"I don't mind telling YOU," says Bucket with an engaging appearanceof frankness, "that as far as I can understand it, there seems to bea doubt whether this dead person wasn't entitled to a littleproperty, and whether this female hasn't been up to some gamesrespecting that property, don't you see?"
"Oh!" says Mr. Snagsby, but not appearing to see quite distinctly.
"Now, what YOU want," pursues Bucket, again tapping Mr. Snagsby onthe breast in a comfortable and soothing manner, "is that everyperson should have their rights according to justice. That's what YOUwant."
"To be sure," returns Mr. Snagsby with a nod.
"On account of which, and at the same time to oblige a--do you callit, in your business, customer or client? I forget how my uncle usedto call it."
"Why, I generally say customer myself," replies Mr. Snagsby.
"You're right!" returns Mr. Bucket, shaking hands with him quiteaffectionately. "--On account of which, and at the same time tooblige a real good customer, you mean to go down with me, inconfidence, to Tom-all-Alone's and to keep the whole thing quiet everafterwards and never mention it to any one. That's about yourintentions, if I understand you?"
"You are right, sir. You are right," says Mr. Snagsby.
"Then here's your hat," returns his new friend, quite as intimatewith it as if he had made it; "and if you're ready, I am."
They leave Mr. Tulkinghorn, without a ruffle on the surface of hisunfathomable depths, drinking his old wine, and go down into thestreets.
"You don't happen to know a very good sort of person of the name ofGridley, do you?" says Bucket in friendly converse as they descendthe stairs.
"No," says Mr. Snagsby, considering, "I don't know anybody of thatname. Why?"
"Nothing particular," says Bucket; "only having allowed his temper toget a little the better of him and having been threatening somerespectable people, he is keeping out of the way of a warrant I havegot against him--which it's a pity that a man of sense should do."
As they walk along, Mr. Snagsby observes, as a novelty, that howeverquick their pace may be, his companion still seems in someundefinable manner to lurk and lounge; also, that whenever he isgoing to turn to the right or left, he pretends to have a fixedpurpose in his mind of going straight ahead, and wheels off, sharply,at the very last moment. Now and then, when they pass apolice-constable on his beat, Mr. Snagsby notices that both theconstable and his guide fall into a deep abstraction as they cometowards each other, and appear entirely to overlook each other, andto gaze into space. In a few instances, Mr. Bucket, coming behindsome under-sized young man with a shining hat on, and his sleek hairtwisted into one flat curl on each side of his head, almost withoutglancing at him touches him with his stick, upon which the young man,looking round, instantly evaporates. For the most part Mr. Bucketnotices things in general, with a face as unchanging as the greatmourning ring on his little finger or the brooch, composed of notmuch diamond and a good deal of setting, which he wears in his shirt.
When they come at last to Tom-all-Alone's, Mr. Bucket stops for amoment at the corner and takes a lighted bull's-eye from theconstable on duty there, who then accompanies him with his ownparticular bull's-eye at his waist. Between his two conductors, Mr.Snagsby passes along the middle of a villainous street, undrained,unventilated, deep in black mud and corrupt water--though the roadsare dry elsewhere--and reeking with such smells and sights that he,who has lived in London all his life, can scarce believe his senses.Branching from this street and its heaps of ruins are other streetsand courts so infamous that Mr. Snagsby sickens in body and mind andfeels as if he were going every moment deeper down into the infernalgulf.
"Draw off a bit here, Mr. Snagsby," says Bucket as a kind of shabbypalanquin is borne towards them, surrounded by a noisy crowd. "Here'sthe fever coming up the street!"
As the unseen wretch goes by, the crowd, leaving that object ofattraction, hovers round the three visitors like a dream of horriblefaces and fades away up alleys and into ruins and behind walls, andwith occasional cries and shrill whistles of warning, thenceforthflits about them until they leave the place.
"Are those the fever-houses, Darby?" Mr. Bucket coolly asks as heturns his bull's-eye on a line of stinking ruins.
Darby replies that "all them are," and further that in all, formonths and months, the people "have been down by dozens" and havebeen carried out dead and dying "like sheep with the rot." Bucketobserving to Mr. Snagsby as they go on again that he looks a littlepoorly, Mr. Snagsby answers that he feels as if he couldn't breathethe dreadful air.
There is inquiry made at various houses for a boy named Jo. As fewpeople are known in Tom-all-Alone's by any Christian sign, there ismuch reference to Mr. Snagsby whether he means Carrots, or theColonel, or Gallows, or Young Chisel, or Terrier Tip, or Lanky, orthe Brick. Mr. Snagsby describes over and over again. There areconflicting opinions respecting the original of his picture. Somethink it must be Carrots, some say the Brick. The Colonel isproduced, but is not at all near the thing. Whenever Mr. Snagsby andhis conductors are stationary, the crowd flows round, and from itssqualid depths obsequious advice heaves up to Mr. Bucket. Wheneverthey move, and the angry bull's-eyes glare, it fades away and flitsabout them up the alleys, and in the ruins, and behind the walls, asbefore.
At last there is a lair found out where Toughy, or the Tough Subject,lays him down at night; and it is thought that the Tough Subject maybe Jo. Comparison of notes between Mr. Snagsby and the proprietressof the house--a drunken face tied up in a black bundle, and flaringout of a heap of rags on the floor of a dog-hutch which is herprivate apartment--leads to the establishment of this conclusion.Toughy has gone to the doctor's to get a bottle of stuff for a sickwoman but will be here anon.
"And who have we got here to-night?" says Mr. Bucket, opening anotherdoor and glaring in with his bull's-eye. "Two drunken men, eh? Andtwo women? The men are sound enough," turning back each sleeper's armfrom his face to look at him. "Are these your good men, my dears?"
"Yes, sir," returns one of the women. "They are our husbands."
"Brickmakers, eh?"
"Yes, sir."
"What are you doing here? You don't belong to London."
"No, sir. We belong to Hertfordshire."
"Whereabouts in Hertfordshire?"
"Saint Albans."
"Come up on the tramp?"
"We walked up yesterday. There's no work down with us at present, butwe have done no good by coming here, and shall do none, I expect."
"That's not the way to do much good," says Mr. Bucket, turning hishead in the direction of the unconscious figures on the ground.
"It an't indeed," replies the woman with a sigh. "Jenny and me knowsit full well."
The room, though two or three feet higher than the door, is so lowthat the head of the tallest of the visitors would touch theblackened ceiling if he stood upright. It is offensive to everysense; even the gross candle burns pale and sickly in the pollutedair. There are a couple of benches and a higher bench by way oftable. The men lie asleep where they stumbled down, but the women sitby the candle. Lying in the arms of the woman who has spoken is avery young child.
"Why, what age do you call that little creature?" says Bucket. "Itlooks as if it was born yesterday." He is not at all rough about it;and as he turns his light gently on the infant, Mr. Snagsby isstrangely reminded of another infant, encircled with light, that hehas seen in pictures.
"He is not three weeks old yet, sir," says the woman.
"Is he your child?"
"Mine."
The other woman, who was bending over it when they came in, stoopsdown again and kisses it as it lies asleep.
"You seem as fond of it as if you were the mother yourself," says Mr.Bucket.
"I was the mother of one like it, master, and it died."
"Ah, Jenny, Jenny!" says the other woman to her. "Better so. Muchbetter to think of dead than alive, Jenny! Much better!"
"Why, you an't such an unnatural woman, I hope," returns Bucketsternly, "as to wish your own child dead?"
"God knows you are right, master," she returns. "I am not. I'd standbetween it and death with my own life if I could, as true as anypretty lady."
"Then don't talk in that wrong manner," says Mr. Bucket, mollifiedagain. "Why do you do it?"
"It's brought into my head, master," returns the woman, her eyesfilling with tears, "when I look down at the child lying so. If itwas never to wake no more, you'd think me mad, I should take on so. Iknow that very well. I was with Jenny when she lost hers--warn't I,Jenny?--and I know how she grieved. But look around you at thisplace. Look at them," glancing at the sleepers on the ground. "Lookat the boy you're waiting for, who's gone out to do me a good turn.Think of the children that your business lays with often and often,and that YOU see grow up!"
"Well, well," says Mr. Bucket, "you train him respectable, and he'llbe a comfort to you, and look after you in your old age, you know."
"I mean to try hard," she answers, wiping her eyes. "But I have beena-thinking, being over-tired to-night and not well with the ague, ofall the many things that'll come in his way. My master will beagainst it, and he'll be beat, and see me beat, and made to fear hishome, and perhaps to stray wild. If I work for him ever so much, andever so hard, there's no one to help me; and if he should be turnedbad 'spite of all I could do, and the time should come when I shouldsit by him in his sleep, made hard and changed, an't it likely Ishould think of him as he lies in my lap now and wish he had died asJenny's child died!"
"There, there!" says Jenny. "Liz, you're tired and ill. Let me takehim."
In doing so, she displaces the mother's dress, but quickly readjustsit over the wounded and bruised bosom where the baby has been lying.
"It's my dead child," says Jenny, walking up and down as she nurses,"that makes me love this child so dear, and it's my dead child thatmakes her love it so dear too, as even to think of its being takenaway from her now. While she thinks that, I think what fortune wouldI give to have my darling back. But we mean the same thing, if weknew how to say it, us two mothers does in our poor hearts!"
As Mr. Snagsby blows his nose and coughs his cough of sympathy, astep is heard without. Mr. Bucket throws his light into the doorwayand says to Mr. Snagsby, "Now, what do you say to Toughy? Will HEdo?"
"That's Jo," says Mr. Snagsby.
Jo stands amazed in the disk of light, like a ragged figure in amagic-lantern, trembling to think that he has offended against thelaw in not having moved on far enough. Mr. Snagsby, however, givinghim the consolatory assurance, "It's only a job you will be paid for,Jo," he recovers; and on being taken outside by Mr. Bucket for alittle private confabulation, tells his tale satisfactorily, thoughout of breath.
"I have squared it with the lad," says Mr. Bucket, returning, "andit's all right. Now, Mr. Snagsby, we're ready for you."
First, Jo has to complete his errand of good nature by handing overthe physic he has been to get, which he delivers with the laconicverbal direction that "it's to be all took d'rectly." Secondly, Mr.Snagsby has to lay upon the table half a crown, his usual panacea foran immense variety of afflictions. Thirdly, Mr. Bucket has to take Joby the arm a little above the elbow and walk him on before him,without which observance neither the Tough Subject nor any otherSubject could be professionally conducted to Lincoln's Inn Fields.These arrangements completed, they give the women good night and comeout once more into black and foul Tom-all-Alone's.
By the noisome ways through which they descended into that pit, theygradually emerge from it, the crowd flitting, and whistling, andskulking about them until they come to the verge, where restorationof the bull's-eyes is made to Darby. Here the crowd, like a concourseof imprisoned demons, turns back, yelling, and is seen no more.Through the clearer and fresher streets, never so clear and fresh toMr. Snagsby's mind as now, they walk and ride until they come to Mr.Tulkinghorn's gate.
As they ascend the dim stairs (Mr. Tulkinghorn's chambers being onthe first floor), Mr. Bucket mentions that he has the key of theouter door in his pocket and that there is no need to ring. For a manso expert in most things of that kind, Bucket takes time to open thedoor and makes some noise too. It may be that he sounds a note ofpreparation.
Howbeit, they come at last into the hall, where a lamp is burning,and so into Mr. Tulkinghorn's usual room--the room where he drank hisold wine to-night. He is not there, but his two old-fashionedcandlesticks are, and the room is tolerably light.
Mr. Bucket, still having his professional hold of Jo and appearing toMr. Snagsby to possess an unlimited number of eyes, makes a littleway into this room, when Jo starts and stops.
"What's the matter?" says Bucket in a whisper.
"There she is!" cries Jo.
"Who!"
"The lady!"
A female figure, closely veiled, stands in the middle of the room,where the light falls upon it. It is quite still and silent. Thefront of the figure is towards them, but it takes no notice of theirentrance and remains like a statue.
"Now, tell me," says Bucket aloud, "how you know that to be thelady."
"I know the wale," replies Jo, staring, "and the bonnet, and thegownd."
"Be quite sure of what you say, Tough," returns Bucket, narrowlyobservant of him. "Look again."
"I am a-looking as hard as ever I can look," says Jo with startingeyes, "and that there's the wale, the bonnet, and the gownd."
"What about those rings you told me of?" asks Bucket.
"A-sparkling all over here," says Jo, rubbing the fingers of his lefthand on the knuckles of his right without taking his eyes from thefigure.
The figure removes the right-hand glove and shows the hand.
"Now, what do you say to that?" asks Bucket.
Jo shakes his head. "Not rings a bit like them. Not a hand likethat."
"What are you talking of?" says Bucket, evidently pleased though, andwell pleased too.
"Hand was a deal whiter, a deal delicater, and a deal smaller,"returns Jo.
"Why, you'll tell me I'm my own mother next," says Mr. Bucket. "Doyou recollect the lady's voice?"
"I think I does," says Jo.
The figure speaks. "Was it at all like this? I will speak as long asyou like if you are not sure. Was it this voice, or at all like thisvoice?"
Jo looks aghast at Mr. Bucket. "Not a bit!"
"Then, what," retorts that worthy, pointing to the figure, "did yousay it was the lady for?"
"Cos," says Jo with a perplexed stare but without being at all shakenin his certainty, "cos that there's the wale, the bonnet, and thegownd. It is her and it an't her. It an't her hand, nor yet herrings, nor yet her woice. But that there's the wale, the bonnet, andthe gownd, and they're wore the same way wot she wore 'em, and it'sher height wot she wos, and she giv me a sov'ring and hooked it."
"Well!" says Mr. Bucket slightly, "we haven't got much good out ofYOU. But, however, here's five shillings for you. Take care how youspend it, and don't get yourself into trouble." Bucket stealthilytells the coins from one hand into the other like counters--which isa way he has, his principal use of them being in these games ofskill--and then puts them, in a little pile, into the boy's hand andtakes him out to the door, leaving Mr. Snagsby, not by any meanscomfortable under these mysterious circumstances, alone with theveiled figure. But on Mr. Tulkinghorn's coming into the room, theveil is raised and a sufficiently good-looking Frenchwoman isrevealed, though her expression is something of the intensest.
"Thank you, Mademoiselle Hortense," says Mr. Tulkinghorn with hisusual equanimity. "I will give you no further trouble about thislittle wager."
"You will do me the kindness to remember, sir, that I am not atpresent placed?" says mademoiselle.
"Certainly, certainly!"
"And to confer upon me the favour of your distinguishedrecommendation?"
"By all means, Mademoiselle Hortense."
"A word from Mr. Tulkinghorn is so powerful."
"It shall not be wanting, mademoiselle."
"Receive the assurance of my devoted gratitude, dear sir."
"Good night."
Mademoiselle goes out with an air of native gentility; and Mr.Bucket, to whom it is, on an emergency, as natural to be groom of theceremonies as it is to be anything else, shows her downstairs, notwithout gallantry.
"Well, Bucket?" quoth Mr. Tulkinghorn on his return.
"It's all squared, you see, as I squared it myself, sir. There an't adoubt that it was the other one with this one's dress on. The boy wasexact respecting colours and everything. Mr. Snagsby, I promised youas a man that he should be sent away all right. Don't say it wasn'tdone!"
"You have kept your word, sir," returns the stationer; "and if I canbe of no further use, Mr. Tulkinghorn, I think, as my little womanwill be getting anxious--"
"Thank you, Snagsby, no further use," says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "I amquite indebted to you for the trouble you have taken already."
"Not at all, sir. I wish you good night."
"You see, Mr. Snagsby," says Mr. Bucket, accompanying him to the doorand shaking hands with him over and over again, "what I like in youis that you're a man it's of no use pumping; that's what YOU are.When you know you have done a right thing, you put it away, and it'sdone with and gone, and there's an end of it. That's what YOU do."
"That is certainly what I endeavour to do, sir," returns Mr. Snagsby.
"No, you don't do yourself justice. It an't what you endeavour todo," says Mr. Bucket, shaking hands with him and blessing him in thetenderest manner, "it's what you DO. That's what I estimate in a manin your way of business."
Mr. Snagsby makes a suitable response and goes homeward so confusedby the events of the evening that he is doubtful of his being awakeand out--doubtful of the reality of the streets through which hegoes--doubtful of the reality of the moon that shines above him. Heis presently reassured on these subjects by the unchallengeablereality of Mrs. Snagsby, sitting up with her head in a perfectbeehive of curl-papers and night-cap, who has dispatched Guster tothe police-station with official intelligence of her husband's beingmade away with, and who within the last two hours has passed throughevery stage of swooning with the greatest decorum. But as the littlewoman feelingly says, many thanks she gets for it!



CHAPTER XXIII
Esther's Narrative

We came home from Mr. Boythorn's after six pleasant weeks. We wereoften in the park and in the woods and seldom passed the lodge wherewe had taken shelter without looking in to speak to the keeper'swife; but we saw no more of Lady Dedlock, except at church onSundays. There was company at Chesney Wold; and although severalbeautiful faces surrounded her, her face retained the same influenceon me as at first. I do not quite know even now whether it waspainful or pleasurable, whether it drew me towards her or made meshrink from her. I think I admired her with a kind of fear, and Iknow that in her presence my thoughts always wandered back, as theyhad done at first, to that old time of my life.
I had a fancy, on more than one of these Sundays, that what this ladyso curiously was to me, I was to her--I mean that I disturbed herthoughts as she influenced mine, though in some different way. Butwhen I stole a glance at her and saw her so composed and distant andunapproachable, I felt this to be a foolish weakness. Indeed, I feltthe whole state of my mind in reference to her to be weak andunreasonable, and I remonstrated with myself about it as much as Icould.
One incident that occurred before we quitted Mr. Boythorn's house, Ihad better mention in this place.
I was walking in the garden with Ada when I was told that some onewished to see me. Going into the breakfast-room where this person waswaiting, I found it to be the French maid who had cast off her shoesand walked through the wet grass on the day when it thundered andlightened.
"Mademoiselle," she began, looking fixedly at me with her too-eagereyes, though otherwise presenting an agreeable appearance andspeaking neither with boldness nor servility, "I have taken a greatliberty in coming here, but you know how to excuse it, being soamiable, mademoiselle."
"No excuse is necessary," I returned, "if you wish to speak to me."
"That is my desire, mademoiselle. A thousand thanks for thepermission. I have your leave to speak. Is it not?" she said in aquick, natural way.
"Certainly," said I.
"Mademoiselle, you are so amiable! Listen then, if you please. I haveleft my Lady. We could not agree. My Lady is so high, so very high.Pardon! Mademoiselle, you are right!" Her quickness anticipated whatI might have said presently but as yet had only thought. "It is notfor me to come here to complain of my Lady. But I say she is so high,so very high. I will not say a word more. All the world knows that."
"Go on, if you please," said I.
"Assuredly; mademoiselle, I am thankful for your politeness.Mademoiselle, I have an inexpressible desire to find service with ayoung lady who is good, accomplished, beautiful. You are good,accomplished, and beautiful as an angel. Ah, could I have the honourof being your domestic!"
"I am sorry--" I began.
"Do not dismiss me so soon, mademoiselle!" she said with aninvoluntary contraction of her fine black eyebrows. "Let me hope amoment! Mademoiselle, I know this service would be more retired thanthat which I have quitted. Well! I wish that. I know this servicewould be less distinguished than that which I have quitted. Well! Iwish that, I know that I should win less, as to wages here. Good. Iam content."
"I assure you," said I, quite embarrassed by the mere idea of havingsuch an attendant, "that I keep no maid--"
"Ah, mademoiselle, but why not? Why not, when you can have one sodevoted to you! Who would be enchanted to serve you; who would be sotrue, so zealous, and so faithful every day! Mademoiselle, I wishwith all my heart to serve you. Do not speak of money at present.Take me as I am. For nothing!"
She was so singularly earnest that I drew back, almost afraid of her.Without appearing to notice it, in her ardour she still pressedherself upon me, speaking in a rapid subdued voice, though alwayswith a certain grace and propriety.
"Mademoiselle, I come from the South country where we are quick andwhere we like and dislike very strong. My Lady was too high for me; Iwas too high for her. It is done--past--finished! Receive me as yourdomestic, and I will serve you well. I will do more for you than youfigure to yourself now. Chut! Mademoiselle, I will--no matter, I willdo my utmost possible in all things. If you accept my service, youwill not repent it. Mademoiselle, you will not repent it, and I willserve you well. You don't know how well!"
There was a lowering energy in her face as she stood looking at mewhile I explained the impossibility of my engaging her (withoutthinking it necessary to say how very little I desired to do so),which seemed to bring visibly before me some woman from the streetsof Paris in the reign of terror.
She heard me out without interruption and then said with her prettyaccent and in her mildest voice, "Hey, mademoiselle, I have receivedmy answer! I am sorry of it. But I must go elsewhere and seek what Ihave not found here. Will you graciously let me kiss your hand?"
She looked at me more intently as she took it, and seemed to takenote, with her momentary touch, of every vein in it. "I fear Isurprised you, mademoiselle, on the day of the storm?" she said witha parting curtsy.
I confessed that she had surprised us all.
"I took an oath, mademoiselle," she said, smiling, "and I wanted tostamp it on my mind so that I might keep it faithfully. And I will!Adieu, mademoiselle!"
So ended our conference, which I was very glad to bring to a close. Isupposed she went away from the village, for I saw her no more; andnothing else occurred to disturb our tranquil summer pleasures untilsix weeks were out and we returned home as I began just now bysaying.
At that time, and for a good many weeks after that time, Richard wasconstant in his visits. Besides coming every Saturday or Sunday andremaining with us until Monday morning, he sometimes rode out onhorseback unexpectedly and passed the evening with us and rode backagain early next day. He was as vivacious as ever and told us he wasvery industrious, but I was not easy in my mind about him. Itappeared to me that his industry was all misdirected. I could notfind that it led to anything but the formation of delusive hopes inconnexion with the suit already the pernicious cause of so muchsorrow and ruin. He had got at the core of that mystery now, he toldus, and nothing could be plainer than that the will under which heand Ada were to take I don't know how many thousands of pounds mustbe finally established if there were any sense or justice in theCourt of Chancery--but oh, what a great IF that sounded in myears--and that this happy conclusion could not be much longerdelayed. He proved this to himself by all the weary arguments on thatside he had read, and every one of them sunk him deeper in theinfatuation. He had even begun to haunt the court. He told us how hesaw Miss Flite there daily, how they talked together, and how he didher little kindnesses, and how, while he laughed at her, he pitiedher from his heart. But he never thought--never, my poor, dear,sanguine Richard, capable of so much happiness then, and with suchbetter things before him--what a fatal link was riveting between hisfresh youth and her faded age, between his free hopes and her cagedbirds, and her hungry garret, and her wandering mind.
Ada loved him too well to mistrust him much in anything he said ordid, and my guardian, though he frequently complained of the eastwind and read more than usual in the growlery, preserved a strictsilence on the subject. So I thought one day when I went to London tomeet Caddy Jellyby, at her solicitation, I would ask Richard to be inwaiting for me at the coach-office, that we might have a little talktogether. I found him there when I arrived, and we walked away arm inarm.
"Well, Richard," said I as soon as I could begin to be grave withhim, "are you beginning to feel more settled now?"
"Oh, yes, my dear!" returned Richard. "I'm all right enough."
"But settled?" said I.
"How do you mean, settled?" returned Richard with his gay laugh.
"Settled in the law," said I.
"Oh, aye," replied Richard, "I'm all right enough."
"You said that before, my dear Richard."
"And you don't think it's an answer, eh? Well! Perhaps it's not.Settled? You mean, do I feel as if I were settling down?"
"Yes."
"Why, no, I can't say I am settling down," said Richard, stronglyemphasizing "down," as if that expressed the difficulty, "because onecan't settle down while this business remains in such an unsettledstate. When I say this business, of course I mean the--forbiddensubject."
"Do you think it will ever be in a settled state?" said I.
"Not the least doubt of it," answered Richard.
We walked a little way without speaking, and presently Richardaddressed me in his frankest and most feeling manner, thus: "My dearEsther, I understand you, and I wish to heaven I were a more constantsort of fellow. I don't mean constant to Ada, for I love herdearly--better and better every day--but constant to myself.(Somehow, I mean something that I can't very well express, but you'llmake it out.) If I were a more constant sort of fellow, I should haveheld on either to Badger or to Kenge and Carboy like grim death, andshould have begun to be steady and systematic by this time, andshouldn't be in debt, and--"
"ARE you in debt, Richard?"
"Yes," said Richard, "I am a little so, my dear. Also, I have takenrather too much to billiards and that sort of thing. Now the murder'sout; you despise me, Esther, don't you?"
"You know I don't," said I.
"You are kinder to me than I often am to myself," he returned. "Mydear Esther, I am a very unfortunate dog not to be more settled, buthow CAN I be more settled? If you lived in an unfinished house, youcouldn't settle down in it; if you were condemned to leave everythingyou undertook unfinished, you would find it hard to apply yourself toanything; and yet that's my unhappy case. I was born into thisunfinished contention with all its chances and changes, and it beganto unsettle me before I quite knew the difference between a suit atlaw and a suit of clothes; and it has gone on unsettling me eversince; and here I am now, conscious sometimes that I am but aworthless fellow to love my confiding cousin Ada."
We were in a solitary place, and he put his hands before his eyes andsobbed as he said the words.
"Oh, Richard!" said I. "Do not be so moved. You have a noble nature,and Ada's love may make you worthier every day."
"I know, my dear," he replied, pressing my arm, "I know all that. Youmustn't mind my being a little soft now, for I have had all this uponmy mind for a long time, and have often meant to speak to you, andhave sometimes wanted opportunity and sometimes courage. I know whatthe thought of Ada ought to do for me, but it doesn't do it. I am toounsettled even for that. I love her most devotedly, and yet I do herwrong, in doing myself wrong, every day and hour. But it can't lastfor ever. We shall come on for a final hearing and get judgment inour favour, and then you and Ada shall see what I can really be!"
It had given me a pang to hear him sob and see the tears start outbetween his fingers, but that was infinitely less affecting to methan the hopeful animation with which he said these words.
"I have looked well into the papers, Esther. I have been deep in themfor months," he continued, recovering his cheerfulness in a moment,"and you may rely upon it that we shall come out triumphant. As toyears of delay, there has been no want of them, heaven knows! Andthere is the greater probability of our bringing the matter to aspeedy close; in fact, it's on the paper now. It will be all right atlast, and then you shall see!"
Recalling how he had just now placed Messrs. Kenge and Carboy in thesame category with Mr. Badger, I asked him when he intended to bearticled in Lincoln's Inn.
"There again! I think not at all, Esther," he returned with aneffort. "I fancy I have had enough of it. Having worked at Jarndyceand Jarndyce like a galley slave, I have slaked my thirst for the lawand satisfied myself that I shouldn't like it. Besides, I find itunsettles me more and more to be so constantly upon the scene ofaction. So what," continued Richard, confident again by this time,"do I naturally turn my thoughts to?"
"I can't imagine," said I.
"Don't look so serious," returned Richard, "because it's the bestthing I can do, my dear Esther, I am certain. It's not as if I wanteda profession for life. These proceedings will come to a termination,and then I am provided for. No. I look upon it as a pursuit which isin its nature more or less unsettled, and therefore suited to mytemporary condition--I may say, precisely suited. What is it that Inaturally turn my thoughts to?"
I looked at him and shook my head.
"What," said Richard, in a tone of perfect conviction, "but thearmy!"
"The army?" said I.
"The army, of course. What I have to do is to get a commission;and--there I am, you know!" said Richard.
And then he showed me, proved by elaborate calculations in hispocket-book, that supposing he had contracted, say, two hundredpounds of debt in six months out of the army; and that he contractedno debt at all within a corresponding period in the army--as to whichhe had quite made up his mind; this step must involve a saving offour hundred pounds in a year, or two thousand pounds in five years,which was a considerable sum. And then he spoke so ingenuously andsincerely of the sacrifice he made in withdrawing himself for a timefrom Ada, and of the earnestness with which he aspired--as in thoughthe always did, I know full well--to repay her love, and to ensure herhappiness, and to conquer what was amiss in himself, and to acquirethe very soul of decision, that he made my heart ache keenly, sorely.For, I thought, how would this end, how could this end, when so soonand so surely all his manly qualities were touched by the fatalblight that ruined everything it rested on!
I spoke to Richard with all the earnestness I felt, and all the hopeI could not quite feel then, and implored him for Ada's sake not toput any trust in Chancery. To all I said, Richard readily assented,riding over the court and everything else in his easy way and drawingthe brightest pictures of the character he was to settle into--alas,when the grievous suit should loose its hold upon him! We had a longtalk, but it always came back to that, in substance.
At last we came to Soho Square, where Caddy Jellyby had appointed towait for me, as a quiet place in the neighbourhood of Newman Street.Caddy was in the garden in the centre and hurried out as soon as Iappeared. After a few cheerful words, Richard left us together.
"Prince has a pupil over the way, Esther," said Caddy, "and got thekey for us. So if you will walk round and round here with me, we canlock ourselves in and I can tell you comfortably what I wanted to seeyour dear good face about."
"Very well, my dear," said I. "Nothing could be better." So Caddy,after affectionately squeezing the dear good face as she called it,locked the gate, and took my arm, and we began to walk round thegarden very cosily.
"You see, Esther," said Caddy, who thoroughly enjoyed a littleconfidence, "after you spoke to me about its being wrong to marrywithout Ma's knowledge, or even to keep Ma long in the darkrespecting our engagement--though I don't believe Ma cares much forme, I must say--I thought it right to mention your opinions toPrince. In the first place because I want to profit by everything youtell me, and in the second place because I have no secrets fromPrince."
"I hope he approved, Caddy?"
"Oh, my dear! I assure you he would approve of anything you couldsay. You have no idea what an opinion he has of you!"
"Indeed!"
"Esther, it's enough to make anybody but me jealous," said Caddy,laughing and shaking her head; "but it only makes me joyful, for youare the first friend I ever had, and the best friend I ever can have,and nobody can respect and love you too much to please me."
"Upon my word, Caddy," said I, "you are in the general conspiracy tokeep me in a good humour. Well, my dear?"
"Well! I am going to tell you," replied Caddy, crossing her handsconfidentially upon my arm. "So we talked a good deal about it, andso I said to Prince, 'Prince, as Miss Summerson--'"
"I hope you didn't say 'Miss Summerson'?"
"No. I didn't!" cried Caddy, greatly pleased and with the brightestof faces. "I said, 'Esther.' I said to Prince, 'As Esther isdecidedly of that opinion, Prince, and has expressed it to me, andalways hints it when she writes those kind notes, which you are sofond of hearing me read to you, I am prepared to disclose the truthto Ma whenever you think proper. And I think, Prince,' said I, 'thatEsther thinks that I should be in a better, and truer, and morehonourable position altogether if you did the same to your papa.'"
"Yes, my dear," said I. "Esther certainly does think so."
"So I was right, you see!" exclaimed Caddy. "Well! This troubledPrince a good deal, not because he had the least doubt about it, butbecause he is so considerate of the feelings of old Mr. Turveydrop;and he had his apprehensions that old Mr. Turveydrop might break hisheart, or faint away, or be very much overcome in some affectingmanner or other if he made such an announcement. He feared old Mr.Turveydrop might consider it undutiful and might receive too great ashock. For old Mr. Turveydrop's deportment is very beautiful, youknow, Esther," said Caddy, "and his feelings are extremelysensitive."
"Are they, my dear?"
"Oh, extremely sensitive. Prince says so. Now, this has caused mydarling child--I didn't mean to use the expression to you, Esther,"Caddy apologized, her face suffused with blushes, "but I generallycall Prince my darling child."
I laughed; and Caddy laughed and blushed, and went on.
"This has caused him, Esther--"
"Caused whom, my dear?"
"Oh, you tiresome thing!" said Caddy, laughing, with her pretty faceon fire. "My darling child, if you insist upon it! This has causedhim weeks of uneasiness and has made him delay, from day to day, in avery anxious manner. At last he said to me, 'Caddy, if MissSummerson, who is a great favourite with my father, could beprevailed upon to be present when I broke the subject, I think Icould do it.' So I promised I would ask you. And I made up my mind,besides," said Caddy, looking at me hopefully but timidly, "that ifyou consented, I would ask you afterwards to come with me to Ma. Thisis what I meant when I said in my note that I had a great favour anda great assistance to beg of you. And if you thought you could grantit, Esther, we should both be very grateful."
"Let me see, Caddy," said I, pretending to consider. "Really, I thinkI could do a greater thing than that if the need were pressing. I amat your service and the darling child's, my dear, whenever you like."
Caddy was quite transported by this reply of mine, being, I believe,as susceptible to the least kindness or encouragement as any tenderheart that ever beat in this world; and after another turn or tworound the garden, during which she put on an entirely new pair ofgloves and made herself as resplendent as possible that she might dono avoidable discredit to the Master of Deportment, we went to NewmanStreet direct.
Prince was teaching, of course. We found him engaged with a not veryhopeful pupil--a stubborn little girl with a sulky forehead, a deepvoice, and an inanimate, dissatisfied mama--whose case was certainlynot rendered more hopeful by the confusion into which we threw herpreceptor. The lesson at last came to an end, after proceeding asdiscordantly as possible; and when the little girl had changed hershoes and had had her white muslin extinguished in shawls, she wastaken away. After a few words of preparation, we then went in searchof Mr. Turveydrop, whom we found, grouped with his hat and gloves, asa model of deportment, on the sofa in his private apartment--the onlycomfortable room in the house. He appeared to have dressed at hisleisure in the intervals of a light collation, and his dressing-case,brushes, and so forth, all of quite an elegant kind, lay about.
"Father, Miss Summerson; Miss Jellyby."
"Charmed! Enchanted!" said Mr. Turveydrop, rising with hishigh-shouldered bow. "Permit me!" Handing chairs. "Be seated!"Kissing the tips of his left fingers. "Overjoyed!" Shutting his eyesand rolling. "My little retreat is made a paradise." Recomposinghimself on the sofa like the second gentleman in Europe.
"Again you find us, Miss Summerson," said he, "using our little artsto polish, polish! Again the sex stimulates us and rewards us by thecondescension of its lovely presence. It is much in these times (andwe have made an awfully degenerating business of it since the days ofhis Royal Highness the Prince Regent--my patron, if I may presume tosay so) to experience that deportment is not wholly trodden underfoot by mechanics. That it can yet bask in the smile of beauty, mydear madam."
I said nothing, which I thought a suitable reply; and he took a pinchof snuff.
"My dear son," said Mr. Turveydrop, "you have four schools thisafternoon. I would recommend a hasty sandwich."
"Thank you, father," returned Prince, "I will be sure to be punctual.My dear father, may I beg you to prepare your mind for what I amgoing to say?"
"Good heaven!" exclaimed the model, pale and aghast as Prince andCaddy, hand in hand, bent down before him. "What is this? Is thislunacy! Or what is this?"
"Father," returned Prince with great submission, "I love this younglady, and we are engaged."
"Engaged!" cried Mr. Turveydrop, reclining on the sofa and shuttingout the sight with his hand. "An arrow launched at my brain by my ownchild!"
"We have been engaged for some time, father," faltered Prince, "andMiss Summerson, hearing of it, advised that we should declare thefact to you and was so very kind as to attend on the presentoccasion. Miss Jellyby is a young lady who deeply respects you,father."
Mr. Turveydrop uttered a groan.
"No, pray don't! Pray don't, father," urged his son. "Miss Jellyby isa young lady who deeply respects you, and our first desire is toconsider your comfort."
Mr. Turveydrop sobbed.
"No, pray don't, father!" cried his son.
"Boy," said Mr. Turveydrop, "it is well that your sainted mother isspared this pang. Strike deep, and spare not. Strike home, sir,strike home!"
"Pray don't say so, father," implored Prince, in tears. "It goes tomy heart. I do assure you, father, that our first wish and intentionis to consider your comfort. Caroline and I do not forget ourduty--what is my duty is Caroline's, as we have often saidtogether--and with your approval and consent, father, we will devoteourselves to making your life agreeable."
"Strike home," murmured Mr. Turveydrop. "Strike home!" But he seemedto listen, I thought, too.
"My dear father," returned Prince, "we well know what little comfortsyou are accustomed to and have a right to, and it will always be ourstudy and our pride to provide those before anything. If you willbless us with your approval and consent, father, we shall not thinkof being married until it is quite agreeable to you; and when we AREmarried, we shall always make you--of course--our firstconsideration. You must ever be the head and master here, father; andwe feel how truly unnatural it would be in us if we failed to know itor if we failed to exert ourselves in every possible way to pleaseyou."
Mr. Turveydrop underwent a severe internal struggle and came uprighton the sofa again with his cheeks puffing over his stiff cravat, aperfect model of parental deportment.
"My son!" said Mr. Turveydrop. "My children! I cannot resist yourprayer. Be happy!"
His benignity as he raised his future daughter-in-law and stretchedout his hand to his son (who kissed it with affectionate respect andgratitude) was the most confusing sight I ever saw.
"My children," said Mr. Turveydrop, paternally encircling Caddy withhis left arm as she sat beside him, and putting his right handgracefully on his hip. "My son and daughter, your happiness shall bemy care. I will watch over you. You shall always live withme"--meaning, of course, I will always live with you--"this house ishenceforth as much yours as mine; consider it your home. May you longlive to share it with me!"
The power of his deportment was such that they really were as muchovercome with thankfulness as if, instead of quartering himself uponthem for the rest of his life, he were making some munificentsacrifice in their favour.
"For myself, my children," said Mr. Turveydrop, "I am falling intothe sear and yellow leaf, and it is impossible to say how long thelast feeble traces of gentlemanly deportment may linger in thisweaving and spinning age. But, so long, I will do my duty to societyand will show myself, as usual, about town. My wants are few andsimple. My little apartment here, my few essentials for the toilet,my frugal morning meal, and my little dinner will suffice. I chargeyour dutiful affection with the supply of these requirements, and Icharge myself with all the rest."
They were overpowered afresh by his uncommon generosity.
"My son," said Mr. Turveydrop, "for those little points in which youare deficient--points of deportment, which are born with a man, whichmay be improved by cultivation, but can never be originated--you maystill rely on me. I have been faithful to my post since the days ofhis Royal Highness the Prince Regent, and I will not desert it now.No, my son. If you have ever contemplated your father's poor positionwith a feeling of pride, you may rest assured that he will do nothingto tarnish it. For yourself, Prince, whose character is different (wecannot be all alike, nor is it advisable that we should), work, beindustrious, earn money, and extend the connexion as much aspossible."
"That you may depend I will do, dear father, with all my heart,"replied Prince.
"I have no doubt of it," said Mr. Turveydrop. "Your qualities are notshining, my dear child, but they are steady and useful. And to bothof you, my children, I would merely observe, in the spirit of asainted wooman on whose path I had the happiness of casting, Ibelieve, SOME ray of light, take care of the establishment, take careof my simple wants, and bless you both!"
Old Mr. Turveydrop then became so very gallant, in honour of theoccasion, that I told Caddy we must really go to Thavies Inn at onceif we were to go at all that day. So we took our departure after avery loving farewell between Caddy and her betrothed, and during ourwalk she was so happy and so full of old Mr. Turveydrop's praisesthat I would not have said a word in his disparagement for anyconsideration.
The house in Thavies Inn had bills in the windows announcing that itwas to let, and it looked dirtier and gloomier and ghastlier thanever. The name of poor Mr. Jellyby had appeared in the list ofbankrupts but a day or two before, and he was shut up in thedining-room with two gentlemen and a heap of blue bags,account-books, and papers, making the most desperate endeavours tounderstand his affairs. They appeared to me to be quite beyond hiscomprehension, for when Caddy took me into the dining-room by mistakeand we came upon Mr. Jellyby in his spectacles, forlornly fenced intoa corner by the great dining-table and the two gentlemen, he seemedto have given up the whole thing and to be speechless and insensible.
Going upstairs to Mrs. Jellyby's room (the children were allscreaming in the kitchen, and there was no servant to be seen), wefound that lady in the midst of a voluminous correspondence, opening,reading, and sorting letters, with a great accumulation of torncovers on the floor. She was so preoccupied that at first she did notknow me, though she sat looking at me with that curious, bright-eyed,far-off look of hers.
"Ah! Miss Summerson!" she said at last. "I was thinking of somethingso different! I hope you are well. I am happy to see you. Mr.Jarndyce and Miss Clare quite well?"
I hoped in return that Mr. Jellyby was quite well.
"Why, not quite, my dear," said Mrs. Jellyby in the calmest manner."He has been unfortunate in his affairs and is a little out ofspirits. Happily for me, I am so much engaged that I have no time tothink about it. We have, at the present moment, one hundred andseventy families, Miss Summerson, averaging five persons in each,either gone or going to the left bank of the Niger."
I thought of the one family so near us who were neither gone norgoing to the left bank of the Niger, and wondered how she could be soplacid.
"You have brought Caddy back, I see," observed Mrs. Jellyby with aglance at her daughter. "It has become quite a novelty to see herhere. She has almost deserted her old employment and in fact obligesme to employ a boy."
"I am sure, Ma--" began Caddy.
"Now you know, Caddy," her mother mildly interposed, "that I DOemploy a boy, who is now at his dinner. What is the use of yourcontradicting?"
"I was not going to contradict, Ma," returned Caddy. "I was onlygoing to say that surely you wouldn't have me be a mere drudge all mylife."
"I believe, my dear," said Mrs. Jellyby, still opening her letters,casting her bright eyes smilingly over them, and sorting them as shespoke, "that you have a business example before you in your mother.Besides. A mere drudge? If you had any sympathy with the destinies ofthe human race, it would raise you high above any such idea. But youhave none. I have often told you, Caddy, you have no such sympathy."
"Not if it's Africa, Ma, I have not."
"Of course you have not. Now, if I were not happily so much engaged,Miss Summerson," said Mrs. Jellyby, sweetly casting her eyes for amoment on me and considering where to put the particular letter shehad just opened, "this would distress and disappoint me. But I haveso much to think of, in connexion with Borrioboola-Gha and it is sonecessary I should concentrate myself that there is my remedy, yousee."
As Caddy gave me a glance of entreaty, and as Mrs. Jellyby waslooking far away into Africa straight through my bonnet and head, Ithought it a good opportunity to come to the subject of my visit andto attract Mrs. Jellyby's attention.
"Perhaps," I began, "you will wonder what has brought me here tointerrupt you."
"I am always delighted to see Miss Summerson," said Mrs. Jellyby,pursuing her employment with a placid smile. "Though I wish," and sheshook her head, "she was more interested in the Borrioboolanproject."
"I have come with Caddy," said I, "because Caddy justly thinks sheought not to have a secret from her mother and fancies I shallencourage and aid her (though I am sure I don't know how) inimparting one."
"Caddy," said Mrs. Jellyby, pausing for a moment in her occupationand then serenely pursuing it after shaking her head, "you are goingto tell me some nonsense."
Caddy untied the strings of her bonnet, took her bonnet off, andletting it dangle on the floor by the strings, and crying heartily,said, "Ma, I am engaged."
"Oh, you ridiculous child!" observed Mrs. Jellyby with an abstractedair as she looked over the dispatch last opened; "what a goose youare!"
"I am engaged, Ma," sobbed Caddy, "to young Mr. Turveydrop, at theacademy; and old Mr. Turveydrop (who is a very gentlemanly manindeed) has given his consent, and I beg and pray you'll give usyours, Ma, because I never could be happy without it. I never, nevercould!" sobbed Caddy, quite forgetful of her general complainings andof everything but her natural affection.
"You see again, Miss Summerson," observed Mrs. Jellyby serenely,"what a happiness it is to be so much occupied as I am and to havethis necessity for self-concentration that I have. Here is Caddyengaged to a dancing-master's son--mixed up with people who have nomore sympathy with the destinies of the human race than she hasherself! This, too, when Mr. Quale, one of the first philanthropistsof our time, has mentioned to me that he was really disposed to beinterested in her!"
"Ma, I always hated and detested Mr. Quale!" sobbed Caddy.
"Caddy, Caddy!" returned Mrs. Jellyby, opening another letter withthe greatest complacency. "I have no doubt you did. How could you dootherwise, being totally destitute of the sympathies with which heoverflows! Now, if my public duties were not a favourite child to me,if I were not occupied with large measures on a vast scale, thesepetty details might grieve me very much, Miss Summerson. But can Ipermit the film of a silly proceeding on the part of Caddy (from whomI expect nothing else) to interpose between me and the great Africancontinent? No. No," repeated Mrs. Jellyby in a calm clear voice, andwith an agreeable smile, as she opened more letters and sorted them."No, indeed."
I was so unprepared for the perfect coolness of this reception,though I might have expected it, that I did not know what to say.Caddy seemed equally at a loss. Mrs. Jellyby continued to open andsort letters and to repeat occasionally in quite a charming tone ofvoice and with a smile of perfect composure, "No, indeed."
"I hope, Ma," sobbed poor Caddy at last, "you are not angry?"
"Oh, Caddy, you really are an absurd girl," returned Mrs. Jellyby,"to ask such questions after what I have said of the preoccupation ofmy mind."
"And I hope, Ma, you give us your consent and wish us well?" saidCaddy.
"You are a nonsensical child to have done anything of this kind,"said Mrs. Jellyby; "and a degenerate child, when you might havedevoted yourself to the great public measure. But the step is taken,and I have engaged a boy, and there is no more to be said. Now, pray,Caddy," said Mrs. Jellyby, for Caddy was kissing her, "don't delay mein my work, but let me clear off this heavy batch of papers beforethe afternoon post comes in!"
I thought I could not do better than take my leave; I was detainedfor a moment by Caddy's saying, "You won't object to my bringing himto see you, Ma?"
"Oh, dear me, Caddy," cried Mrs. Jellyby, who had relapsed into thatdistant contemplation, "have you begun again? Bring whom?"
"Him, Ma."
"Caddy, Caddy!" said Mrs. Jellyby, quite weary of such littlematters. "Then you must bring him some evening which is not a ParentSociety night, or a Branch night, or a Ramification night. You mustaccommodate the visit to the demands upon my time. My dear MissSummerson, it was very kind of you to come here to help out thissilly chit. Good-bye! When I tell you that I have fifty-eight newletters from manufacturing families anxious to understand the detailsof the native and coffee-cultivation question this morning, I neednot apologize for having very little leisure."
I was not surprised by Caddy's being in low spirits when we wentdownstairs, or by her sobbing afresh on my neck, or by her saying shewould far rather have been scolded than treated with suchindifference, or by her confiding to me that she was so poor inclothes that how she was ever to be married creditably she didn'tknow. I gradually cheered her up by dwelling on the many things shewould do for her unfortunate father and for Peepy when she had a homeof her own; and finally we went downstairs into the damp darkkitchen, where Peepy and his little brothers and sisters weregrovelling on the stone floor and where we had such a game of playwith them that to prevent myself from being quite torn to pieces Iwas obliged to fall back on my fairy-tales. From time to time I heardloud voices in the parlour overhead, and occasionally a violenttumbling about of the furniture. The last effect I am afraid wascaused by poor Mr. Jellyby's breaking away from the dining-table andmaking rushes at the window with the intention of throwing himselfinto the area whenever he made any new attempt to understand hisaffairs.
As I rode quietly home at night after the day's bustle, I thought agood deal of Caddy's engagement and felt confirmed in my hopes (inspite of the elder Mr. Turveydrop) that she would be the happier andbetter for it. And if there seemed to be but a slender chance of herand her husband ever finding out what the model of deportment reallywas, why that was all for the best too, and who would wish them to bewiser? I did not wish them to be any wiser and indeed was halfashamed of not entirely believing in him myself. And I looked up atthe stars, and thought about travellers in distant countries and thestars THEY saw, and hoped I might always be so blest and happy as tobe useful to some one in my small way.
They were so glad to see me when I got home, as they always were,that I could have sat down and cried for joy if that had not been amethod of making myself disagreeable. Everybody in the house, fromthe lowest to the highest, showed me such a bright face of welcome,and spoke so cheerily, and was so happy to do anything for me, that Isuppose there never was such a fortunate little creature in theworld.
We got into such a chatty state that night, through Ada and myguardian drawing me out to tell them all about Caddy, that I went onprose, prose, prosing for a length of time. At last I got up to myown room, quite red to think how I had been holding forth, and then Iheard a soft tap at my door. So I said, "Come in!" and there came ina pretty little girl, neatly dressed in mourning, who dropped acurtsy.
"If you please, miss," said the little girl in a soft voice, "I amCharley."
"Why, so you are," said I, stooping down in astonishment and givingher a kiss. "How glad am I to see you, Charley!"
"If you please, miss," pursued Charley in the same soft voice, "I'myour maid."
"Charley?"
"If you please, miss, I'm a present to you, with Mr. Jarndyce'slove."
I sat down with my hand on Charley's neck and looked at Charley.
"And oh, miss," says Charley, clapping her hands, with the tearsstarting down her dimpled cheeks, "Tom's at school, if you please,and learning so good! And little Emma, she's with Mrs. Blinder, miss,a-being took such care of! And Tom, he would have been at school--andEmma, she would have been left with Mrs. Blinder--and me, I shouldhave been here--all a deal sooner, miss; only Mr. Jarndyce thoughtthat Tom and Emma and me had better get a little used to partingfirst, we was so small. Don't cry, if you please, miss!"
"I can't help it, Charley."
"No, miss, nor I can't help it," says Charley. "And if you please,miss, Mr. Jarndyce's love, and he thinks you'll like to teach me nowand then. And if you please, Tom and Emma and me is to see each otheronce a month. And I'm so happy and so thankful, miss," cried Charleywith a heaving heart, "and I'll try to be such a good maid!"
"Oh, Charley dear, never forget who did all this!"
"No, miss, I never will. Nor Tom won't. Nor yet Emma. It was all you,miss."
"I have known nothing of it. It was Mr. Jarndyce, Charley."
"Yes, miss, but it was all done for the love of you and that youmight be my mistress. If you please, miss, I am a little present withhis love, and it was all done for the love of you. Me and Tom was tobe sure to remember it."
Charley dried her eyes and entered on her functions, going in hermatronly little way about and about the room and folding upeverything she could lay her hands upon. Presently Charley camecreeping back to my side and said, "Oh, don't cry, if you please,miss."
And I said again, "I can't help it, Charley."
And Charley said again, "No, miss, nor I can't help it." And so,after all, I did cry for joy indeed, and so did she.



CHAPTER XXIV
An Appeal Case

As soon as Richard and I had held the conversation of which I havegiven an account, Richard communicated the state of his mind to Mr.Jarndyce. I doubt if my guardian were altogether taken by surprisewhen he received the representation, though it caused him muchuneasiness and disappointment. He and Richard were often closetedtogether, late at night and early in the morning, and passed wholedays in London, and had innumerable appointments with Mr. Kenge, andlaboured through a quantity of disagreeable business. While they werethus employed, my guardian, though he underwent considerableinconvenience from the state of the wind and rubbed his head soconstantly that not a single hair upon it ever rested in its rightplace, was as genial with Ada and me as at any other time, butmaintained a steady reserve on these matters. And as our utmostendeavours could only elicit from Richard himself sweeping assurancesthat everything was going on capitally and that it really was allright at last, our anxiety was not much relieved by him.
We learnt, however, as the time went on, that a new application wasmade to the Lord Chancellor on Richard's behalf as an infant and award, and I don't know what, and that there was a quantity oftalking, and that the Lord Chancellor described him in open court asa vexatious and capricious infant, and that the matter was adjournedand readjourned, and referred, and reported on, and petitioned aboutuntil Richard began to doubt (as he told us) whether, if he enteredthe army at all, it would not be as a veteran of seventy or eightyyears of age. At last an appointment was made for him to see the LordChancellor again in his private room, and there the Lord Chancellorvery seriously reproved him for trifling with time and not knowinghis mind--"a pretty good joke, I think," said Richard, "from thatquarter!"--and at last it was settled that his application should begranted. His name was entered at the Horse Guards as an applicant foran ensign's commission; the purchase-money was deposited at anagent's; and Richard, in his usual characteristic way, plunged into aviolent course of military study and got up at five o'clock everymorning to practise the broadsword exercise.
Thus, vacation succeeded term, and term succeeded vacation. Wesometimes heard of Jarndyce and Jarndyce as being in the paper or outof the paper, or as being to be mentioned, or as being to be spokento; and it came on, and it went off. Richard, who was now in aprofessor's house in London, was able to be with us less frequentlythan before; my guardian still maintained the same reserve; and sotime passed until the commission was obtained and Richard receiveddirections with it to join a regiment in Ireland.
He arrived post-haste with the intelligence one evening, and had along conference with my guardian. Upwards of an hour elapsed beforemy guardian put his head into the room where Ada and I were sittingand said, "Come in, my dears!" We went in and found Richard, whom wehad last seen in high spirits, leaning on the chimney-piece lookingmortified and angry.
"Rick and I, Ada," said Mr. Jarndyce, "are not quite of one mind.Come, come, Rick, put a brighter face upon it!"
"You are very hard with me, sir," said Richard. "The harder becauseyou have been so considerate to me in all other respects and havedone me kindnesses that I can never acknowledge. I never could havebeen set right without you, sir."
"Well, well!" said Mr. Jarndyce. "I want to set you more right yet. Iwant to set you more right with yourself."
"I hope you will excuse my saying, sir," returned Richard in a fieryway, but yet respectfully, "that I think I am the best judge aboutmyself."
"I hope you will excuse my saying, my dear Rick," observed Mr.Jarndyce with the sweetest cheerfulness and good humour, "that it'squite natural in you to think so, but I don't think so. I must do myduty, Rick, or you could never care for me in cool blood; and I hopeyou will always care for me, cool and hot."
Ada had turned so pale that he made her sit down in his reading-chairand sat beside her.
"It's nothing, my dear," he said, "it's nothing. Rick and I have onlyhad a friendly difference, which we must state to you, for you arethe theme. Now you are afraid of what's coming."
"I am not indeed, cousin John," replied Ada with a smile, "if it isto come from you."
"Thank you, my dear. Do you give me a minute's calm attention,without looking at Rick. And, little woman, do you likewise. My deargirl," putting his hand on hers as it lay on the side of theeasy-chair, "you recollect the talk we had, we four when the littlewoman told me of a little love affair?"
"It is not likely that either Richard or I can ever forget yourkindness that day, cousin John."
"I can never forget it," said Richard.
"And I can never forget it," said Ada.
"So much the easier what I have to say, and so much the easier for usto agree," returned my guardian, his face irradiated by thegentleness and honour of his heart. "Ada, my bird, you should knowthat Rick has now chosen his profession for the last time. All thathe has of certainty will be expended when he is fully equipped. Hehas exhausted his resources and is bound henceforward to the tree hehas planted."
"Quite true that I have exhausted my present resources, and I amquite content to know it. But what I have of certainty, sir," saidRichard, "is not all I have."
"Rick, Rick!" cried my guardian with a sudden terror in his manner,and in an altered voice, and putting up his hands as if he would havestopped his ears. "For the love of God, don't found a hope orexpectation on the family curse! Whatever you do on this side thegrave, never give one lingering glance towards the horrible phantomthat has haunted us so many years. Better to borrow, better to beg,better to die!"
We were all startled by the fervour of this warning. Richard bit hislip and held his breath, and glanced at me as if he felt, and knewthat I felt too, how much he needed it.
"Ada, my dear," said Mr. Jarndyce, recovering his cheerfulness,"these are strong words of advice, but I live in Bleak House and haveseen a sight here. Enough of that. All Richard had to start him inthe race of life is ventured. I recommend to him and you, for hissake and your own, that he should depart from us with theunderstanding that there is no sort of contract between you. I mustgo further. I will be plain with you both. You were to confide freelyin me, and I will confide freely in you. I ask you wholly torelinquish, for the present, any tie but your relationship."
"Better to say at once, sir," returned Richard, "that you renounceall confidence in me and that you advise Ada to do the same."
"Better to say nothing of the sort, Rick, because I don't mean it."
"You think I have begun ill, sir," retorted Richard. "I HAVE, Iknow."
"How I hoped you would begin, and how go on, I told you when we spokeof these things last," said Mr. Jarndyce in a cordial and encouragingmanner. "You have not made that beginning yet, but there is a timefor all things, and yours is not gone by; rather, it is just nowfully come. Make a clear beginning altogether. You two (very young,my dears) are cousins. As yet, you are nothing more. What more maycome must come of being worked out, Rick, and no sooner."
"You are very hard with me, sir," said Richard. "Harder than I couldhave supposed you would be."
"My dear boy," said Mr. Jarndyce, "I am harder with myself when I doanything that gives you pain. You have your remedy in your own hands.Ada, it is better for him that he should be free and that thereshould be no youthful engagement between you. Rick, it is better forher, much better; you owe it to her. Come! Each of you will do whatis best for the other, if not what is best for yourselves."
"Why is it best, sir?" returned Richard hastily. "It was not when weopened our hearts to you. You did not say so then."
"I have had experience since. I don't blame you, Rick, but I have hadexperience since."
"You mean of me, sir."
"Well! Yes, of both of you," said Mr. Jarndyce kindly. "The time isnot come for your standing pledged to one another. It is not right,and I must not recognize it. Come, come, my young cousins, beginafresh! Bygones shall be bygones, and a new page turned for you towrite your lives in."
Richard gave an anxious glance at Ada but said nothing.
"I have avoided saying one word to either of you or to Esther," saidMr. Jarndyce, "until now, in order that we might be open as the day,and all on equal terms. I now affectionately advise, I now mostearnestly entreat, you two to part as you came here. Leave all elseto time, truth, and steadfastness. If you do otherwise, you will dowrong, and you will have made me do wrong in ever bringing youtogether."
A long silence succeeded.
"Cousin Richard," said Ada then, raising her blue eyes tenderly tohis face, "after what our cousin John has said, I think no choice isleft us. Your mind may be quite at ease about me, for you will leaveme here under his care and will be sure that I can have nothing towish for--quite sure if I guide myself by his advice. I--I don'tdoubt, cousin Richard," said Ada, a little confused, "that you arevery fond of me, and I--I don't think you will fall in love withanybody else. But I should like you to consider well about it too, asI should like you to be in all things very happy. You may trust inme, cousin Richard. I am not at all changeable; but I am notunreasonable, and should never blame you. Even cousins may be sorryto part; and in truth I am very, very sorry, Richard, though I knowit's for your welfare. I shall always think of you affectionately,and often talk of you with Esther, and--and perhaps you willsometimes think a little of me, cousin Richard. So now," said Ada,going up to him and giving him her trembling hand, "we are onlycousins again, Richard--for the time perhaps--and I pray for ablessing on my dear cousin, wherever he goes!"
It was strange to me that Richard should not be able to forgive myguardian for entertaining the very same opinion of him which hehimself had expressed of himself in much stronger terms to me. But itwas certainly the case. I observed with great regret that from thishour he never was as free and open with Mr. Jarndyce as he had beenbefore. He had every reason given him to be so, but he was not; andsolely on his side, an estrangement began to arise between them.
In the business of preparation and equipment he soon lost himself,and even his grief at parting from Ada, who remained in Hertfordshirewhile he, Mr. Jarndyce, and I went up to London for a week. Heremembered her by fits and starts, even with bursts of tears, and atsuch times would confide to me the heaviest self-reproaches. But in afew minutes he would recklessly conjure up some undefinable means bywhich they were both to be made rich and happy for ever, and wouldbecome as gay as possible.
It was a busy time, and I trotted about with him all day long, buyinga variety of things of which he stood in need. Of the things he wouldhave bought if he had been left to his own ways I say nothing. He wasperfectly confidential with me, and often talked so sensibly andfeelingly about his faults and his vigorous resolutions, and dwelt somuch upon the encouragement he derived from these conversations thatI could never have been tired if I had tried.
There used, in that week, to come backward and forward to our lodgingto fence with Richard a person who had formerly been a cavalrysoldier; he was a fine bluff-looking man, of a frank free bearing,with whom Richard had practised for some months. I heard so muchabout him, not only from Richard, but from my guardian too, that Iwas purposely in the room with my work one morning after breakfastwhen he came.
"Good morning, Mr. George," said my guardian, who happened to bealone with me. "Mr. Carstone will be here directly. Meanwhile, MissSummerson is very happy to see you, I know. Sit down."
He sat down, a little disconcerted by my presence, I thought, andwithout looking at me, drew his heavy sunburnt hand across and acrosshis upper lip.
"You are as punctual as the sun," said Mr. Jarndyce.
"Military time, sir," he replied. "Force of habit. A mere habit inme, sir. I am not at all business-like."
"Yet you have a large establishment, too, I am told?" said Mr.Jarndyce.
"Not much of a one, sir. I keep a shooting gallery, but not much of aone."
"And what kind of a shot and what kind of a swordsman do you make ofMr. Carstone?" said my guardian.
"Pretty good, sir," he replied, folding his arms upon his broad chestand looking very large. "If Mr. Carstone was to give his full mind toit, he would come out very good."
"But he don't, I suppose?" said my guardian.
"He did at first, sir, but not afterwards. Not his full mind. Perhapshe has something else upon it--some young lady, perhaps." His brightdark eyes glanced at me for the first time.
"He has not me upon his mind, I assure you, Mr. George," said I,laughing, "though you seem to suspect me."
He reddened a little through his brown and made me a trooper's bow."No offence, I hope, miss. I am one of the roughs."
"Not at all," said I. "I take it as a compliment."
If he had not looked at me before, he looked at me now in three orfour quick successive glances. "I beg your pardon, sir," he said tomy guardian with a manly kind of diffidence, "but you did me thehonour to mention the young lady's name--"
"Miss Summerson."
"Miss Summerson," he repeated, and looked at me again.
"Do you know the name?" I asked.
"No, miss. To my knowledge I never heard it. I thought I had seen yousomewhere."
"I think not," I returned, raising my head from my work to look athim; and there was something so genuine in his speech and manner thatI was glad of the opportunity. "I remember faces very well."
"So do I, miss!" he returned, meeting my look with the fullness ofhis dark eyes and broad forehead. "Humph! What set me off, now, uponthat!"
His once more reddening through his brown and being disconcerted byhis efforts to remember the association brought my guardian to hisrelief.
"Have you many pupils, Mr. George?"
"They vary in their number, sir. Mostly they're but a small lot tolive by."
"And what classes of chance people come to practise at your gallery?"
"All sorts, sir. Natives and foreigners. From gentlemen to'prentices. I have had Frenchwomen come, before now, and showthemselves dabs at pistol-shooting. Mad people out of number, ofcourse, but THEY go everywhere where the doors stand open."
"People don't come with grudges and schemes of finishing theirpractice with live targets, I hope?" said my guardian, smiling.
"Not much of that, sir, though that HAS happened. Mostly they comefor skill--or idleness. Six of one, and half-a-dozen of the other. Ibeg your pardon," said Mr. George, sitting stiffly upright andsquaring an elbow on each knee, "but I believe you're a Chancerysuitor, if I have heard correct?"
"I am sorry to say I am."
"I have had one of YOUR compatriots in my time, sir."
"A Chancery suitor?" returned my guardian. "How was that?"
"Why, the man was so badgered and worried and tortured by beingknocked about from post to pillar, and from pillar to post," said Mr.George, "that he got out of sorts. I don't believe he had any idea oftaking aim at anybody, but he was in that condition of resentment andviolence that he would come and pay for fifty shots and fire awaytill he was red hot. One day I said to him when there was nobody byand he had been talking to me angrily about his wrongs, 'If thispractice is a safety-valve, comrade, well and good; but I don'taltogether like your being so bent upon it in your present state ofmind; I'd rather you took to something else.' I was on my guard for ablow, he was that passionate; but he received it in very good partand left off directly. We shook hands and struck up a sort offriendship."
"What was that man?" asked my guardian in a new tone of interest.
"Why, he began by being a small Shropshire farmer before they made abaited bull of him," said Mr. George.
"Was his name Gridley?"
"It was, sir."
Mr. George directed another succession of quick bright glances at meas my guardian and I exchanged a word or two of surprise at thecoincidence, and I therefore explained to him how we knew the name.He made me another of his soldierly bows in acknowledgment of what hecalled my condescension.
"I don't know," he said as he looked at me, "what it is that sets meoff again--but--bosh! What's my head running against!" He passed oneof his heavy hands over his crisp dark hair as if to sweep the brokenthoughts out of his mind and sat a little forward, with one armakimbo and the other resting on his leg, looking in a brown study atthe ground.
"I am sorry to learn that the same state of mind has got this Gridleyinto new troubles and that he is in hiding," said my guardian.
"So I am told, sir," returned Mr. George, still musing and looking onthe ground. "So I am told."
"You don't know where?"
"No, sir," returned the trooper, lifting up his eyes and coming outof his reverie. "I can't say anything about him. He will be worn outsoon, I expect. You may file a strong man's heart away for a goodmany years, but it will tell all of a sudden at last."
Richard's entrance stopped the conversation. Mr. George rose, made meanother of his soldierly bows, wished my guardian a good day, andstrode heavily out of the room.
This was the morning of the day appointed for Richard's departure. Wehad no more purchases to make now; I had completed all his packingearly in the afternoon; and our time was disengaged until night, whenhe was to go to Liverpool for Holyhead. Jarndyce and Jarndyce beingagain expected to come on that day, Richard proposed to me that weshould go down to the court and hear what passed. As it was his lastday, and he was eager to go, and I had never been there, I gave myconsent and we walked down to Westminster, where the court was thensitting. We beguiled the way with arrangements concerning the lettersthat Richard was to write to me and the letters that I was to writeto him and with a great many hopeful projects. My guardian knew wherewe were going and therefore was not with us.
When we came to the court, there was the Lord Chancellor--the samewhom I had seen in his private room in Lincoln's Inn--sitting ingreat state and gravity on the bench, with the mace and seals on ared table below him and an immense flat nosegay, like a littlegarden, which scented the whole court. Below the table, again, was along row of solicitors, with bundles of papers on the matting attheir feet; and then there were the gentlemen of the bar in wigs andgowns--some awake and some asleep, and one talking, and nobody payingmuch attention to what he said. The Lord Chancellor leaned back inhis very easy chair with his elbow on the cushioned arm and hisforehead resting on his hand; some of those who were present dozed;some read the newspapers; some walked about or whispered in groups:all seemed perfectly at their ease, by no means in a hurry, veryunconcerned, and extremely comfortable.
To see everything going on so smoothly and to think of the roughnessof the suitors' lives and deaths; to see all that full dress andceremony and to think of the waste, and want, and beggared misery itrepresented; to consider that while the sickness of hope deferred wasraging in so many hearts this polite show went calmly on from day today, and year to year, in such good order and composure; to beholdthe Lord Chancellor and the whole array of practitioners under himlooking at one another and at the spectators as if nobody had everheard that all over England the name in which they were assembled wasa bitter jest, was held in universal horror, contempt, andindignation, was known for something so flagrant and bad that littleshort of a miracle could bring any good out of it to any one--thiswas so curious and self-contradictory to me, who had no experience ofit, that it was at first incredible, and I could not comprehend it. Isat where Richard put me, and tried to listen, and looked about me;but there seemed to be no reality in the whole scene except poorlittle Miss Flite, the madwoman, standing on a bench and nodding atit.
Miss Flite soon espied us and came to where we sat. She gave me agracious welcome to her domain and indicated, with much gratificationand pride, its principal attractions. Mr. Kenge also came to speak tous and did the honours of the place in much the same way, with thebland modesty of a proprietor. It was not a very good day for avisit, he said; he would have preferred the first day of term; but itwas imposing, it was imposing.
When we had been there half an hour or so, the case in progress--if Imay use a phrase so ridiculous in such a connexion--seemed to die outof its own vapidity, without coming, or being by anybody expected tocome, to any result. The Lord Chancellor then threw down a bundle ofpapers from his desk to the gentlemen below him, and somebody said,"Jarndyce and Jarndyce." Upon this there was a buzz, and a laugh, anda general withdrawal of the bystanders, and a bringing in of greatheaps, and piles, and bags and bags full of papers.
I think it came on "for further directions"--about some bill ofcosts, to the best of my understanding, which was confused enough.But I counted twenty-three gentlemen in wigs who said they were "init," and none of them appeared to understand it much better than I.They chatted about it with the Lord Chancellor, and contradicted andexplained among themselves, and some of them said it was this way,and some of them said it was that way, and some of them jocoselyproposed to read huge volumes of affidavits, and there was morebuzzing and laughing, and everybody concerned was in a state of idleentertainment, and nothing could be made of it by anybody. After anhour or so of this, and a good many speeches being begun and cutshort, it was "referred back for the present," as Mr. Kenge said, andthe papers were bundled up again before the clerks had finishedbringing them in.
I glanced at Richard on the termination of these hopeless proceedingsand was shocked to see the worn look of his handsome young face. "Itcan't last for ever, Dame Durden. Better luck next time!" was all hesaid.
I had seen Mr. Guppy bringing in papers and arranging them for Mr.Kenge; and he had seen me and made me a forlorn bow, which renderedme desirous to get out of the court. Richard had given me his arm andwas taking me away when Mr. Guppy came up.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Carstone," said he in a whisper, "and MissSummerson's also, but there's a lady here, a friend of mine, whoknows her and wishes to have the pleasure of shaking hands." As hespoke, I saw before me, as if she had started into bodily shape frommy remembrance, Mrs. Rachael of my godmother's house.
"How do you do, Esther?" said she. "Do you recollect me?"
I gave her my hand and told her yes and that she was very littlealtered.
"I wonder you remember those times, Esther," she returned with herold asperity. "They are changed now. Well! I am glad to see you, andglad you are not too proud to know me." But indeed she seemeddisappointed that I was not.
"Proud, Mrs. Rachael!" I remonstrated.
"I am married, Esther," she returned, coldly correcting me, "and amMrs. Chadband. Well! I wish you good day, and I hope you'll do well."
Mr. Guppy, who had been attentive to this short dialogue, heaved asigh in my ear and elbowed his own and Mrs. Rachael's way through theconfused little crowd of people coming in and going out, which wewere in the midst of and which the change in the business had broughttogether. Richard and I were making our way through it, and I was yetin the first chill of the late unexpected recognition when I saw,coming towards us, but not seeing us, no less a person than Mr.George. He made nothing of the people about him as he tramped on,staring over their heads into the body of the court.
"George!" said Richard as I called his attention to him.
"You are well met, sir," he returned. "And you, miss. Could you pointa person out for me, I want? I don't understand these places."
Turning as he spoke and making an easy way for us, he stopped when wewere out of the press in a corner behind a great red curtain.
"There's a little cracked old woman," he began, "that--"
I put up my finger, for Miss Flite was close by me, having keptbeside me all the time and having called the attention of several ofher legal acquaintance to me (as I had overheard to my confusion) bywhispering in their ears, "Hush! Fitz Jarndyce on my left!"
"Hem!" said Mr. George. "You remember, miss, that we passed someconversation on a certain man this morning? Gridley," in a lowwhisper behind his hand.
"Yes," said I.
"He is hiding at my place. I couldn't mention it. Hadn't hisauthority. He is on his last march, miss, and has a whim to see her.He says they can feel for one another, and she has been almost asgood as a friend to him here. I came down to look for her, for when Isat by Gridley this afternoon, I seemed to hear the roll of themuffled drums."
"Shall I tell her?" said I.
"Would you be so good?" he returned with a glance of something likeapprehension at Miss Flite. "It's a providence I met you, miss; Idoubt if I should have known how to get on with that lady." And heput one hand in his breast and stood upright in a martial attitude asI informed little Miss Flite, in her ear, of the purport of his kinderrand.
"My angry friend from Shropshire! Almost as celebrated as myself!"she exclaimed. "Now really! My dear, I will wait upon him with thegreatest pleasure."
"He is living concealed at Mr. George's," said I. "Hush! This is Mr.George."
"In--deed!" returned Miss Flite. "Very proud to have the honour! Amilitary man, my dear. You know, a perfect general!" she whispered tome.
Poor Miss Flite deemed it necessary to be so courtly and polite, as amark of her respect for the army, and to curtsy so very often that itwas no easy matter to get her out of the court. When this was at lastdone, and addressing Mr. George as "General," she gave him her arm,to the great entertainment of some idlers who were looking on, he wasso discomposed and begged me so respectfully "not to desert him" thatI could not make up my mind to do it, especially as Miss Flite wasalways tractable with me and as she too said, "Fitz Jarndyce, mydear, you will accompany us, of course." As Richard seemed quitewilling, and even anxious, that we should see them safely to theirdestination, we agreed to do so. And as Mr. George informed us thatGridley's mind had run on Mr. Jarndyce all the afternoon afterhearing of their interview in the morning, I wrote a hasty note inpencil to my guardian to say where we were gone and why. Mr. Georgesealed it at a coffee-house, that it might lead to no discovery, andwe sent it off by a ticket-porter.
We then took a hackney-coach and drove away to the neighbourhood ofLeicester Square. We walked through some narrow courts, for which Mr.George apologized, and soon came to the shooting gallery, the door ofwhich was closed. As he pulled a bell-handle which hung by a chain tothe door-post, a very respectable old gentleman with grey hair,wearing spectacles, and dressed in a black spencer and gaiters and abroad-brimmed hat, and carrying a large gold-beaded cane, addressedhim.
"I ask your pardon, my good friend," said he, "but is this George'sShooting Gallery?"
"It is, sir," returned Mr. George, glancing up at the great lettersin which that inscription was painted on the whitewashed wall.
"Oh! To be sure!" said the old gentleman, following his eyes. "Thankyou. Have you rung the bell?"
"My name is George, sir, and I have rung the bell."
"Oh, indeed?" said the old gentleman. "Your name is George? Then I amhere as soon as you, you see. You came for me, no doubt?"
"No, sir. You have the advantage of me."
"Oh, indeed?" said the old gentleman. "Then it was your young man whocame for me. I am a physician and was requested--five minutes ago--tocome and visit a sick man at George's Shooting Gallery."
"The muffled drums," said Mr. George, turning to Richard and me andgravely shaking his head. "It's quite correct, sir. Will you pleaseto walk in."
The door being at that moment opened by a very singular-lookinglittle man in a green-baize cap and apron, whose face and hands anddress were blackened all over, we passed along a dreary passage intoa large building with bare brick walls where there were targets, andguns, and swords, and other things of that kind. When we had allarrived here, the physician stopped, and taking off his hat, appearedto vanish by magic and to leave another and quite a different man inhis place.
"Now lookee here, George," said the man, turning quickly round uponhim and tapping him on the breast with a large forefinger. "You knowme, and I know you. You're a man of the world, and I'm a man of theworld. My name's Bucket, as you are aware, and I have got apeace-warrant against Gridley. You have kept him out of the way along time, and you have been artful in it, and it does you credit."
Mr. George, looking hard at him, bit his lip and shook his head.
"Now, George," said the other, keeping close to him, "you're asensible man and a well-conducted man; that's what YOU are, beyond adoubt. And mind you, I don't talk to you as a common character,because you have served your country and you know that when dutycalls we must obey. Consequently you're very far from wanting to givetrouble. If I required assistance, you'd assist me; that's what YOU'Ddo. Phil Squod, don't you go a-sidling round the gallery likethat"--the dirty little man was shuffling about with his shoulderagainst the wall, and his eyes on the intruder, in a manner thatlooked threatening--"because I know you and won't have it."
"Phil!" said Mr. George.
"Yes, guv'ner."
"Be quiet."
The little man, with a low growl, stood still.
"Ladies and gentlemen," said Mr. Bucket, "you'll excuse anything thatmay appear to be disagreeable in this, for my name's Inspector Bucketof the Detective, and I have a duty to perform. George, I know wheremy man is because I was on the roof last night and saw him throughthe skylight, and you along with him. He is in there, you know,"pointing; "that's where HE is--on a sofy. Now I must see my man, andI must tell my man to consider himself in custody; but you know me,and you know I don't want to take any uncomfortable measures. Yougive me your word, as from one man to another (and an old soldier,mind you, likewise), that it's honourable between us two, and I'llaccommodate you to the utmost of my power."
"I give it," was the reply. "But it wasn't handsome in you, Mr.Bucket."
"Gammon, George! Not handsome?" said Mr. Bucket, tapping him on hisbroad breast again and shaking hands with him. "I don't say it wasn'thandsome in you to keep my man so close, do I? Be equallygood-tempered to me, old boy! Old William Tell, Old Shaw, the LifeGuardsman! Why, he's a model of the whole British army in himself,ladies and gentlemen. I'd give a fifty-pun' note to be such a figureof a man!"
The affair being brought to this head, Mr. George, after a littleconsideration, proposed to go in first to his comrade (as he calledhim), taking Miss Flite with him. Mr. Bucket agreeing, they went awayto the further end of the gallery, leaving us sitting and standing bya table covered with guns. Mr. Bucket took this opportunity ofentering into a little light conversation, asking me if I were afraidof fire-arms, as most young ladies were; asking Richard if he were agood shot; asking Phil Squod which he considered the best of thoserifles and what it might be worth first-hand, telling him in returnthat it was a pity he ever gave way to his temper, for he wasnaturally so amiable that he might have been a young woman, andmaking himself generally agreeable.
After a time he followed us to the further end of the gallery, andRichard and I were going quietly away when Mr. George came after us.He said that if we had no objection to see his comrade, he would takea visit from us very kindly. The words had hardly passed his lipswhen the bell was rung and my guardian appeared, "on the chance," heslightly observed, "of being able to do any little thing for a poorfellow involved in the same misfortune as himself." We all four wentback together and went into the place where Gridley was.
It was a bare room, partitioned off from the gallery with unpaintedwood. As the screening was not more than eight or ten feet high andonly enclosed the sides, not the top, the rafters of the high galleryroof were overhead, and the skylight through which Mr. Bucket hadlooked down. The sun was low--near setting--and its light came redlyin above, without descending to the ground. Upon a plaincanvas-covered sofa lay the man from Shropshire, dressed much as wehad seen him last, but so changed that at first I recognized nolikeness in his colourless face to what I recollected.
He had been still writing in his hiding-place, and still dwelling onhis grievances, hour after hour. A table and some shelves werecovered with manuscript papers and with worn pens and a medley ofsuch tokens. Touchingly and awfully drawn together, he and the littlemad woman were side by side and, as it were, alone. She sat on achair holding his hand, and none of us went close to them.
His voice had faded, with the old expression of his face, with hisstrength, with his anger, with his resistance to the wrongs that hadat last subdued him. The faintest shadow of an object full of formand colour is such a picture of it as he was of the man fromShropshire whom we had spoken with before.
He inclined his head to Richard and me and spoke to my guardian.
"Mr. Jarndyce, it is very kind of you to come to see me. I am notlong to be seen, I think. I am very glad to take your hand, sir. Youare a good man, superior to injustice, and God knows I honour you."
They shook hands earnestly, and my guardian said some words ofcomfort to him.
"It may seem strange to you, sir," returned Gridley; "I should nothave liked to see you if this had been the first time of our meeting.But you know I made a fight for it, you know I stood up with mysingle hand against them all, you know I told them the truth to thelast, and told them what they were, and what they had done to me; soI don't mind your seeing me, this wreck."
"You have been courageous with them many and many a time," returnedmy guardian.
"Sir, I have been," with a faint smile. "I told you what would comeof it when I ceased to be so, and see here! Look at us--look at us!"He drew the hand Miss Flite held through her arm and brought hersomething nearer to him.
"This ends it. Of all my old associations, of all my old pursuits andhopes, of all the living and the dead world, this one poor soul alonecomes natural to me, and I am fit for. There is a tie of manysuffering years between us two, and it is the only tie I ever had onearth that Chancery has not broken."
"Accept my blessing, Gridley," said Miss Flite in tears. "Accept myblessing!"
"I thought, boastfully, that they never could break my heart, Mr.Jarndyce. I was resolved that they should not. I did believe that Icould, and would, charge them with being the mockery they were untilI died of some bodily disorder. But I am worn out. How long I havebeen wearing out, I don't know; I seemed to break down in an hour. Ihope they may never come to hear of it. I hope everybody here willlead them to believe that I died defying them, consistently andperseveringly, as I did through so many years."
Here Mr. Bucket, who was sitting in a corner by the door,good-naturedly offered such consolation as he could administer.
"Come, come!" he said from his corner. "Don't go on in that way, Mr.Gridley. You are only a little low. We are all of us a little lowsometimes. I am. Hold up, hold up! You'll lose your temper with thewhole round of 'em, again and again; and I shall take you on a scoreof warrants yet, if I have luck."
He only shook his head.
"Don't shake your head," said Mr. Bucket. "Nod it; that's what I wantto see you do. Why, Lord bless your soul, what times we have hadtogether! Haven't I seen you in the Fleet over and over again forcontempt? Haven't I come into court, twenty afternoons for no otherpurpose than to see you pin the Chancellor like a bull-dog? Don't youremember when you first began to threaten the lawyers, and the peacewas sworn against you two or three times a week? Ask the little oldlady there; she has been always present. Hold up, Mr. Gridley, holdup, sir!"
"What are you going to do about him?" asked George in a low voice.
"I don't know yet," said Bucket in the same tone. Then resuming hisencouragement, he pursued aloud: "Worn out, Mr. Gridley? Afterdodging me for all these weeks and forcing me to climb the roof herelike a tom cat and to come to see you as a doctor? That ain't likebeing worn out. I should think not! Now I tell you what you want. Youwant excitement, you know, to keep YOU up; that's what YOU want.You're used to it, and you can't do without it. I couldn't myself.Very well, then; here's this warrant got by Mr. Tulkinghorn ofLincoln's Inn Fields, and backed into half-a-dozen counties since.What do you say to coming along with me, upon this warrant, andhaving a good angry argument before the magistrates? It'll do yougood; it'll freshen you up and get you into training for another turnat the Chancellor. Give in? Why, I am surprised to hear a man of yourenergy talk of giving in. You mustn't do that. You're half the fun ofthe fair in the Court of Chancery. George, you lend Mr. Gridley ahand, and let's see now whether he won't be better up than down."
"He is very weak," said the trooper in a low voice.
"Is he?" returned Bucket anxiously. "I only want to rouse him. Idon't like to see an old acquaintance giving in like this. It wouldcheer him up more than anything if I could make him a little waxywith me. He's welcome to drop into me, right and left, if he likes. Ishall never take advantage of it."
The roof rang with a scream from Miss Flite, which still rings in myears.
"Oh, no, Gridley!" she cried as he fell heavily and calmly back frombefore her. "Not without my blessing. After so many years!"
The sun was down, the light had gradually stolen from the roof, andthe shadow had crept upward. But to me the shadow of that pair, oneliving and one dead, fell heavier on Richard's departure than thedarkness of the darkest night. And through Richard's farewell words Iheard it echoed: "Of all my old associations, of all my old pursuitsand hopes, of all the living and the dead world, this one poor soulalone comes natural to me, and I am fit for. There is a tie of manysuffering years between us two, and it is the only tie I ever had onearth that Chancery has not broken!"



CHAPTER XXV
Mrs. Snagsby Sees It All

There is disquietude in Cook's Court, Cursitor Street. Blacksuspicion hides in that peaceful region. The mass of Cook's Courtiersare in their usual state of mind, no better and no worse; but Mr.Snagsby is changed, and his little woman knows it.
For Tom-all-Alone's and Lincoln's Inn Fields persist in harnessingthemselves, a pair of ungovernable coursers, to the chariot of Mr.Snagsby's imagination; and Mr. Bucket drives; and the passengers areJo and Mr. Tulkinghorn; and the complete equipage whirls though thelaw-stationery business at wild speed all round the clock. Even inthe little front kitchen where the family meals are taken, it rattlesaway at a smoking pace from the dinner-table, when Mr. Snagsby pausesin carving the first slice of the leg of mutton baked with potatoesand stares at the kitchen wall.
Mr. Snagsby cannot make out what it is that he has had to do with.Something is wrong somewhere, but what something, what may come ofit, to whom, when, and from which unthought of and unheard of quarteris the puzzle of his life. His remote impressions of the robes andcoronets, the stars and garters, that sparkle through thesurface-dust of Mr. Tulkinghorn's chambers; his veneration for themysteries presided over by that best and closest of his customers,whom all the Inns of Court, all Chancery Lane, and all the legalneighbourhood agree to hold in awe; his remembrance of Detective Mr.Bucket with his forefinger and his confidential manner, impossible tobe evaded or declined, persuade him that he is a party to somedangerous secret without knowing what it is. And it is the fearfulpeculiarity of this condition that, at any hour of his daily life, atany opening of the shop-door, at any pull of the bell, at anyentrance of a messenger, or any delivery of a letter, the secret maytake air and fire, explode, and blow up--Mr. Bucket only knows whom.
For which reason, whenever a man unknown comes into the shop (as manymen unknown do) and says, "Is Mr. Snagsby in?" or words to thatinnocent effect, Mr. Snagsby's heart knocks hard at his guiltybreast. He undergoes so much from such inquiries that when they aremade by boys he revenges himself by flipping at their ears over thecounter and asking the young dogs what they mean by it and why theycan't speak out at once? More impracticable men and boys persist inwalking into Mr. Snagsby's sleep and terrifying him withunaccountable questions, so that often when the cock at the littledairy in Cursitor Street breaks out in his usual absurd way about themorning, Mr. Snagsby finds himself in a crisis of nightmare, with hislittle woman shaking him and saying "What's the matter with the man!"
The little woman herself is not the least item in his difficulty. Toknow that he is always keeping a secret from her, that he has underall circumstances to conceal and hold fast a tender double tooth,which her sharpness is ever ready to twist out of his head, gives Mr.Snagsby, in her dentistical presence, much of the air of a dog whohas a reservation from his master and will look anywhere rather thanmeet his eye.
These various signs and tokens, marked by the little woman, are notlost upon her. They impel her to say, "Snagsby has something on hismind!" And thus suspicion gets into Cook's Court, Cursitor Street.From suspicion to jealousy, Mrs. Snagsby finds the road as naturaland short as from Cook's Court to Chancery Lane. And thus jealousygets into Cook's Court, Cursitor Street. Once there (and it wasalways lurking thereabout), it is very active and nimble in Mrs.Snagsby's breast, prompting her to nocturnal examinations of Mr.Snagsby's pockets; to secret perusals of Mr. Snagsby's letters; toprivate researches in the day book and ledger, till, cash-box, andiron safe; to watchings at windows, listenings behind doors, and ageneral putting of this and that together by the wrong end.
Mrs. Snagsby is so perpetually on the alert that the house becomesghostly with creaking boards and rustling garments. The 'prenticesthink somebody may have been murdered there in bygone times. Gusterholds certain loose atoms of an idea (picked up at Tooting, wherethey were found floating among the orphans) that there is buriedmoney underneath the cellar, guarded by an old man with a whitebeard, who cannot get out for seven thousand years because he saidthe Lord's Prayer backwards.
"Who was Nimrod?" Mrs. Snagsby repeatedly inquires of herself. "Whowas that lady--that creature? And who is that boy?" Now, Nimrod beingas dead as the mighty hunter whose name Mrs. Snagsby hasappropriated, and the lady being unproducible, she directs her mentaleye, for the present, with redoubled vigilance to the boy. "And who,"quoth Mrs. Snagsby for the thousand and first time, "is that boy? Whois that--!" And there Mrs. Snagsby is seized with an inspiration.
He has no respect for Mr. Chadband. No, to be sure, and he wouldn'thave, of course. Naturally he wouldn't, under those contagiouscircumstances. He was invited and appointed by Mr. Chadband--why,Mrs. Snagsby heard it herself with her own ears!--to come back, andbe told where he was to go, to be addressed by Mr. Chadband; and henever came! Why did he never come? Because he was told not to come.Who told him not to come? Who? Ha, ha! Mrs. Snagsby sees it all.
But happily (and Mrs. Snagsby tightly shakes her head and tightlysmiles) that boy was met by Mr. Chadband yesterday in the streets;and that boy, as affording a subject which Mr. Chadband desires toimprove for the spiritual delight of a select congregation, wasseized by Mr. Chadband and threatened with being delivered over tothe police unless he showed the reverend gentleman where he lived andunless he entered into, and fulfilled, an undertaking to appear inCook's Court to-morrow night, "to--mor--row--night," Mrs. Snagsbyrepeats for mere emphasis with another tight smile and another tightshake of her head; and to-morrow night that boy will be here, andto-morrow night Mrs. Snagsby will have her eye upon him and upon someone else; and oh, you may walk a long while in your secret ways (saysMrs. Snagsby with haughtiness and scorn), but you can't blind ME!
Mrs. Snagsby sounds no timbrel in anybody's ears, but holds herpurpose quietly, and keeps her counsel. To-morrow comes, the savourypreparations for the Oil Trade come, the evening comes. Comes Mr.Snagsby in his black coat; come the Chadbands; come (when the gorgingvessel is replete) the 'prentices and Guster, to be edified; comes atlast, with his slouching head, and his shuffle backward, and hisshuffle forward, and his shuffle to the right, and his shuffle to theleft, and his bit of fur cap in his muddy hand, which he picks as ifit were some mangy bird he had caught and was plucking before eatingraw, Jo, the very, very tough subject Mr. Chadband is to improve.
Mrs. Snagsby screws a watchful glance on Jo as he is brought into thelittle drawing-room by Guster. He looks at Mr. Snagsby the moment hecomes in. Aha! Why does he look at Mr. Snagsby? Mr. Snagsby looks athim. Why should he do that, but that Mrs. Snagsby sees it all? Whyelse should that look pass between them, why else should Mr. Snagsbybe confused and cough a signal cough behind his hand? It is as clearas crystal that Mr. Snagsby is that boy's father.
"Peace, my friends," says Chadband, rising and wiping the oilyexudations from his reverend visage. "Peace be with us! My friends,why with us? Because," with his fat smile, "it cannot be against us,because it must be for us; because it is not hardening, because it issoftening; because it does not make war like the hawk, but comes homeunto us like the dove. Therefore, my friends, peace be with us! Myhuman boy, come forward!"
Stretching forth his flabby paw, Mr. Chadband lays the same on Jo'sarm and considers where to station him. Jo, very doubtful of hisreverend friend's intentions and not at all clear but that somethingpractical and painful is going to be done to him, mutters, "You letme alone. I never said nothink to you. You let me alone."
"No, my young friend," says Chadband smoothly, "I will not let youalone. And why? Because I am a harvest-labourer, because I am atoiler and a moiler, because you are delivered over unto me and arebecome as a precious instrument in my hands. My friends, may I soemploy this instrument as to use it to your advantage, to yourprofit, to your gain, to your welfare, to your enrichment! My youngfriend, sit upon this stool."
Jo, apparently possessed by an impression that the reverend gentlemanwants to cut his hair, shields his head with both arms and is gotinto the required position with great difficulty and every possiblemanifestation of reluctance.
When he is at last adjusted like a lay-figure, Mr. Chadband, retiringbehind the table, holds up his bear's-paw and says, "My friends!"This is the signal for a general settlement of the audience. The'prentices giggle internally and nudge each other. Guster falls intoa staring and vacant state, compounded of a stunned admiration of Mr.Chadband and pity for the friendless outcast whose condition touchesher nearly. Mrs. Snagsby silently lays trains of gunpowder. Mrs.Chadband composes herself grimly by the fire and warms her knees,finding that sensation favourable to the reception of eloquence.
It happens that Mr. Chadband has a pulpit habit of fixing some memberof his congregation with his eye and fatly arguing his points withthat particular person, who is understood to be expected to be movedto an occasional grunt, groan, gasp, or other audible expression ofinward working, which expression of inward working, being echoed bysome elderly lady in the next pew and so communicated like a game offorfeits through a circle of the more fermentable sinners present,serves the purpose of parliamentary cheering and gets Mr. Chadband'ssteam up. From mere force of habit, Mr. Chadband in saying "Myfriends!" has rested his eye on Mr. Snagsby and proceeds to make thatill-starred stationer, already sufficiently confused, the immediaterecipient of his discourse.
"We have here among us, my friends," says Chadband, "a Gentile and aheathen, a dweller in the tents of Tom-all-Alone's and a mover-onupon the surface of the earth. We have here among us, my friends,"and Mr. Chadband, untwisting the point with his dirty thumb-nail,bestows an oily smile on Mr. Snagsby, signifying that he will throwhim an argumentative back-fall presently if he be not already down,"a brother and a boy. Devoid of parents, devoid of relations, devoidof flocks and herds, devoid of gold and silver and of preciousstones. Now, my friends, why do I say he is devoid of thesepossessions? Why? Why is he?" Mr. Chadband states the question as ifhe were propounding an entirely new riddle of much ingenuity andmerit to Mr. Snagsby and entreating him not to give it up.
Mr. Snagsby, greatly perplexed by the mysterious look he receivedjust now from his little woman--at about the period when Mr. Chadbandmentioned the word parents--is tempted into modestly remarking, "Idon't know, I'm sure, sir." On which interruption Mrs. Chadbandglares and Mrs. Snagsby says, "For shame!"
"I hear a voice," says Chadband; "is it a still small voice, myfriends? I fear not, though I fain would hope so--"
"Ah--h!" from Mrs. Snagsby.
"Which says, 'I don't know.' Then I will tell you why. I say thisbrother present here among us is devoid of parents, devoid ofrelations, devoid of flocks and herds, devoid of gold, of silver, andof precious stones because he is devoid of the light that shines inupon some of us. What is that light? What is it? I ask you, what isthat light?"
Mr. Chadband draws back his head and pauses, but Mr. Snagsby is notto be lured on to his destruction again. Mr. Chadband, leaningforward over the table, pierces what he has got to follow directlyinto Mr. Snagsby with the thumb-nail already mentioned.
"It is," says Chadband, "the ray of rays, the sun of suns, the moonof moons, the star of stars. It is the light of Terewth."
Mr. Chadband draws himself up again and looks triumphantly at Mr.Snagsby as if he would be glad to know how he feels after that.
"Of Terewth," says Mr. Chadband, hitting him again. "Say not to methat it is NOT the lamp of lamps. I say to you it is. I say to you, amillion of times over, it is. It is! I say to you that I willproclaim it to you, whether you like it or not; nay, that the lessyou like it, the more I will proclaim it to you. With aspeaking-trumpet! I say to you that if you rear yourself against it,you shall fall, you shall be bruised, you shall be battered, youshall be flawed, you shall be smashed."
The present effect of this flight of oratory--much admired for itsgeneral power by Mr. Chadband's followers--being not only to make Mr.Chadband unpleasantly warm, but to represent the innocent Mr. Snagsbyin the light of a determined enemy to virtue, with a forehead ofbrass and a heart of adamant, that unfortunate tradesman becomes yetmore disconcerted and is in a very advanced state of low spirits andfalse position when Mr. Chadband accidentally finishes him.
"My friends," he resumes after dabbing his fat head for sometime--and it smokes to such an extent that he seems to light hispocket-handkerchief at it, which smokes, too, after every dab--"topursue the subject we are endeavouring with our lowly gifts toimprove, let us in a spirit of love inquire what is that Terewth towhich I have alluded. For, my young friends," suddenly addressing the'prentices and Guster, to their consternation, "if I am told by thedoctor that calomel or castor-oil is good for me, I may naturally askwhat is calomel, and what is castor-oil. I may wish to be informed ofthat before I dose myself with either or with both. Now, my youngfriends, what is this Terewth then? Firstly (in a spirit of love),what is the common sort of Terewth--the working clothes--theevery-day wear, my young friends? Is it deception?"
"Ah--h!" from Mrs. Snagsby.
"Is it suppression?"
A shiver in the negative from Mrs. Snagsby.
"Is it reservation?"
A shake of the head from Mrs. Snagsby--very long and very tight.
"No, my friends, it is neither of these. Neither of these namesbelongs to it. When this young heathen now among us--who is now, myfriends, asleep, the seal of indifference and perdition being setupon his eyelids; but do not wake him, for it is right that I shouldhave to wrestle, and to combat and to struggle, and to conquer, forhis sake--when this young hardened heathen told us a story of a cock,and of a bull, and of a lady, and of a sovereign, was THAT theTerewth? No. Or if it was partly, was it wholly and entirely? No, myfriends, no!"
If Mr. Snagsby could withstand his little woman's look as it entersat his eyes, the windows of his soul, and searches the wholetenement, he were other than the man he is. He cowers and droops.
"Or, my juvenile friends," says Chadband, descending to the level oftheir comprehension with a very obtrusive demonstration in hisgreasily meek smile of coming a long way downstairs for the purpose,"if the master of this house was to go forth into the city and theresee an eel, and was to come back, and was to call unto him themistress of this house, and was to say, 'Sarah, rejoice with me, forI have seen an elephant!' would THAT be Terewth?"
Mrs. Snagsby in tears.
"Or put it, my juvenile friends, that he saw an elephant, andreturning said 'Lo, the city is barren, I have seen but an eel,'would THAT be Terewth?"
Mrs. Snagsby sobbing loudly.
"Or put it, my juvenile friends," said Chadband, stimulated by thesound, "that the unnatural parents of this slumbering heathen--forparents he had, my juvenile friends, beyond a doubt--after castinghim forth to the wolves and the vultures, and the wild dogs and theyoung gazelles, and the serpents, went back to their dwellings andhad their pipes, and their pots, and their flutings and theirdancings, and their malt liquors, and their butcher's meat andpoultry, would THAT be Terewth?"
Mrs. Snagsby replies by delivering herself a prey to spasms, not anunresisting prey, but a crying and a tearing one, so that Cook'sCourt re-echoes with her shrieks. Finally, becoming cataleptic, shehas to be carried up the narrow staircase like a grand piano. Afterunspeakable suffering, productive of the utmost consternation, she ispronounced, by expresses from the bedroom, free from pain, thoughmuch exhausted, in which state of affairs Mr. Snagsby, trampled andcrushed in the piano-forte removal, and extremely timid and feeble,ventures to come out from behind the door in the drawing-room.
All this time Jo has been standing on the spot where he woke up, everpicking his cap and putting bits of fur in his mouth. He spits themout with a remorseful air, for he feels that it is in his nature tobe an unimprovable reprobate and that it's no good HIS trying to keepawake, for HE won't never know nothink. Though it may be, Jo, thatthere is a history so interesting and affecting even to minds as nearthe brutes as thine, recording deeds done on this earth for commonmen, that if the Chadbands, removing their own persons from thelight, would but show it thee in simple reverence, would but leave itunimproved, would but regard it as being eloquent enough withouttheir modest aid--it might hold thee awake, and thou might learn fromit yet!
Jo never heard of any such book. Its compilers and the ReverendChadband are all one to him, except that he knows the ReverendChadband and would rather run away from him for an hour than hear himtalk for five minutes. "It an't no good my waiting here no longer,"thinks Jo. "Mr. Snagsby an't a-going to say nothink to me to-night."And downstairs he shuffles.
But downstairs is the charitable Guster, holding by the handrail ofthe kitchen stairs and warding off a fit, as yet doubtfully, the samehaving been induced by Mrs. Snagsby's screaming. She has her ownsupper of bread and cheese to hand to Jo, with whom she ventures tointerchange a word or so for the first time.
"Here's something to eat, poor boy," says Guster.
"Thank'ee, mum," says Jo.
"Are you hungry?"
"Jist!" says Jo.
"What's gone of your father and your mother, eh?"
Jo stops in the middle of a bite and looks petrified. For this orphancharge of the Christian saint whose shrine was at Tooting has pattedhim on the shoulder, and it is the first time in his life that anydecent hand has been so laid upon him.
"I never know'd nothink about 'em," says Jo.
"No more didn't I of mine," cries Guster. She is repressing symptomsfavourable to the fit when she seems to take alarm at something andvanishes down the stairs.
"Jo," whispers the law-stationer softly as the boy lingers on thestep.
"Here I am, Mr. Snagsby!"
"I didn't know you were gone--there's another half-crown, Jo. It wasquite right of you to say nothing about the lady the other night whenwe were out together. It would breed trouble. You can't be too quiet,Jo."
"I am fly, master!"
And so, good night.
A ghostly shade, frilled and night-capped, follows the law-stationerto the room he came from and glides higher up. And henceforth hebegins, go where he will, to be attended by another shadow than hisown, hardly less constant than his own, hardly less quiet than hisown. And into whatsoever atmosphere of secrecy his own shadow maypass, let all concerned in the secrecy beware! For the watchful Mrs.Snagsby is there too--bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh, shadow ofhis shadow.



CHAPTER XXVI
Sharpshooters

Wintry morning, looking with dull eyes and sallow face upon theneighbourhood of Leicester Square, finds its inhabitants unwilling toget out of bed. Many of them are not early risers at the brightest oftimes, being birds of night who roost when the sun is high and arewide awake and keen for prey when the stars shine out. Behind dingyblind and curtain, in upper story and garret, skulking more or lessunder false names, false hair, false titles, false jewellery, andfalse histories, a colony of brigands lie in their first sleep.Gentlemen of the green-baize road who could discourse from personalexperience of foreign galleys and home treadmills; spies of stronggovernments that eternally quake with weakness and miserable fear,broken traitors, cowards, bullies, gamesters, shufflers, swindlers,and false witnesses; some not unmarked by the branding-iron beneaththeir dirty braid; all with more cruelty in them than was in Nero,and more crime than is in Newgate. For howsoever bad the devil can bein fustian or smock-frock (and he can be very bad in both), he is amore designing, callous, and intolerable devil when he sticks a pinin his shirt-front, calls himself a gentleman, backs a card orcolour, plays a game or so of billiards, and knows a little aboutbills and promissory notes than in any other form he wears. And insuch form Mr. Bucket shall find him, when he will, still pervadingthe tributary channels of Leicester Square.
But the wintry morning wants him not and wakes him not. It wakes Mr.George of the shooting gallery and his familiar. They arise, roll upand stow away their mattresses. Mr. George, having shaved himselfbefore a looking-glass of minute proportions, then marches out,bare-headed and bare-chested, to the pump in the little yard and anoncomes back shining with yellow soap, friction, drifting rain, andexceedingly cold water. As he rubs himself upon a large jack-towel,blowing like a military sort of diver just come up, his hair curlingtighter and tighter on his sunburnt temples the more he rubs it sothat it looks as if it never could be loosened by any less coerciveinstrument than an iron rake or a curry-comb--as he rubs, and puffs,and polishes, and blows, turning his head from side to side the moreconveniently to excoriate his throat, and standing with his body wellbent forward to keep the wet from his martial legs, Phil, on hisknees lighting a fire, looks round as if it were enough washing forhim to see all that done, and sufficient renovation for one day totake in the superfluous health his master throws off.
When Mr. George is dry, he goes to work to brush his head with twohard brushes at once, to that unmerciful degree that Phil,shouldering his way round the gallery in the act of sweeping it,winks with sympathy. This chafing over, the ornamental part of Mr.George's toilet is soon performed. He fills his pipe, lights it, andmarches up and down smoking, as his custom is, while Phil, raising apowerful odour of hot rolls and coffee, prepares breakfast. He smokesgravely and marches in slow time. Perhaps this morning's pipe isdevoted to the memory of Gridley in his grave.
"And so, Phil," says George of the shooting gallery after severalturns in silence, "you were dreaming of the country last night?"
Phil, by the by, said as much in a tone of surprise as he scrambledout of bed.
"Yes, guv'ner."
"What was it like?"
"I hardly know what it was like, guv'ner," said Phil, considering.
"How did you know it was the country?"
"On account of the grass, I think. And the swans upon it," says Philafter further consideration.
"What were the swans doing on the grass?"
"They was a-eating of it, I expect," says Phil.
The master resumes his march, and the man resumes his preparation ofbreakfast. It is not necessarily a lengthened preparation, beinglimited to the setting forth of very simple breakfast requisites fortwo and the broiling of a rasher of bacon at the fire in the rustygrate; but as Phil has to sidle round a considerable part of thegallery for every object he wants, and never brings two objects atonce, it takes time under the circumstances. At length the breakfastis ready. Phil announcing it, Mr. George knocks the ashes out of hispipe on the hob, stands his pipe itself in the chimney corner, andsits down to the meal. When he has helped himself, Phil follows suit,sitting at the extreme end of the little oblong table and taking hisplate on his knees. Either in humility, or to hide his blackenedhands, or because it is his natural manner of eating.
"The country," says Mr. George, plying his knife and fork; "why, Isuppose you never clapped your eyes on the country, Phil?"
"I see the marshes once," says Phil, contentedly eating hisbreakfast.
"What marshes?"
"THE marshes, commander," returns Phil.
"Where are they?"
"I don't know where they are," says Phil; "but I see 'em, guv'ner.They was flat. And miste."
Governor and commander are interchangeable terms with Phil,expressive of the same respect and deference and applicable to nobodybut Mr. George.
"I was born in the country, Phil."
"Was you indeed, commander?"
"Yes. And bred there."
Phil elevates his one eyebrow, and after respectfully staring at hismaster to express interest, swallows a great gulp of coffee, stillstaring at him.
"There's not a bird's note that I don't know," says Mr. George. "Notmany an English leaf or berry that I couldn't name. Not many a treethat I couldn't climb yet if I was put to it. I was a real countryboy, once. My good mother lived in the country."
"She must have been a fine old lady, guv'ner," Phil observes.
"Aye! And not so old either, five and thirty years ago," says Mr.George. "But I'll wager that at ninety she would be near as uprightas me, and near as broad across the shoulders."
"Did she die at ninety, guv'ner?" inquires Phil.
"No. Bosh! Let her rest in peace, God bless her!" says thetrooper. "What set me on about country boys, and runaways, andgood-for-nothings? You, to be sure! So you never clapped your eyesupon the country--marshes and dreams excepted. Eh?"
Phil shakes his head.
"Do you want to see it?"
"N-no, I don't know as I do, particular," says Phil.
"The town's enough for you, eh?"
"Why, you see, commander," says Phil, "I ain't acquainted withanythink else, and I doubt if I ain't a-getting too old to take tonovelties."
"How old ARE you, Phil?" asks the trooper, pausing as he conveys hissmoking saucer to his lips.
"I'm something with a eight in it," says Phil. "It can't be eighty.Nor yet eighteen. It's betwixt 'em, somewheres."
Mr. George, slowly putting down his saucer without tasting itscontents, is laughingly beginning, "Why, what the deuce, Phil--" whenhe stops, seeing that Phil is counting on his dirty fingers.
"I was just eight," says Phil, "agreeable to the parish calculation,when I went with the tinker. I was sent on a errand, and I see hima-sittin under a old buildin with a fire all to himself werycomfortable, and he says, 'Would you like to come along a me, myman?' I says 'Yes,' and him and me and the fire goes home toClerkenwell together. That was April Fool Day. I was able to count upto ten; and when April Fool Day come round again, I says to myself,'Now, old chap, you're one and a eight in it.' April Fool Day afterthat, I says, 'Now, old chap, you're two and a eight in it.' Incourse of time, I come to ten and a eight in it; two tens and a eightin it. When it got so high, it got the upper hand of me, but this ishow I always know there's a eight in it."
"Ah!" says Mr. George, resuming his breakfast. "And where's thetinker?"
"Drink put him in the hospital, guv'ner, and the hospital put him--ina glass-case, I HAVE heerd," Phil replies mysteriously.
"By that means you got promotion? Took the business, Phil?"
"Yes, commander, I took the business. Such as it was. It wasn't muchof a beat--round Saffron Hill, Hatton Garden, Clerkenwell, Smiffeld,and there--poor neighbourhood, where they uses up the kettles tillthey're past mending. Most of the tramping tinkers used to come andlodge at our place; that was the best part of my master's earnings.But they didn't come to me. I warn't like him. He could sing 'em agood song. I couldn't! He could play 'em a tune on any sort of potyou please, so as it was iron or block tin. I never could do nothingwith a pot but mend it or bile it--never had a note of music in me.Besides, I was too ill-looking, and their wives complained of me."
"They were mighty particular. You would pass muster in a crowd,Phil!" says the trooper with a pleasant smile.
"No, guv'ner," returns Phil, shaking his head. "No, I shouldn't. Iwas passable enough when I went with the tinker, though nothing toboast of then; but what with blowing the fire with my mouth when Iwas young, and spileing my complexion, and singeing my hair off, andswallering the smoke, and what with being nat'rally unfort'nate inthe way of running against hot metal and marking myself by sichmeans, and what with having turn-ups with the tinker as I got older,almost whenever he was too far gone in drink--which was almostalways--my beauty was queer, wery queer, even at that time. As tosince, what with a dozen years in a dark forge where the men wasgiven to larking, and what with being scorched in a accident at agas-works, and what with being blowed out of winder case-filling atthe firework business, I am ugly enough to be made a show on!"
Resigning himself to which condition with a perfectly satisfiedmanner, Phil begs the favour of another cup of coffee. While drinkingit, he says, "It was after the case-filling blow-up when I first seeyou, commander. You remember?"
"I remember, Phil. You were walking along in the sun."
"Crawling, guv'ner, again a wall--"
"True, Phil--shouldering your way on--"
"In a night-cap!" exclaims Phil, excited.
"In a night-cap--"
"And hobbling with a couple of sticks!" cries Phil, still moreexcited.
"With a couple of sticks. When--"
"When you stops, you know," cries Phil, putting down his cup andsaucer and hastily removing his plate from his knees, "and says tome, 'What, comrade! You have been in the wars!' I didn't say much toyou, commander, then, for I was took by surprise that a person sostrong and healthy and bold as you was should stop to speak to such alimping bag of bones as I was. But you says to me, says you,delivering it out of your chest as hearty as possible, so that it waslike a glass of something hot, 'What accident have you met with? Youhave been badly hurt. What's amiss, old boy? Cheer up, and tell usabout it!' Cheer up! I was cheered already! I says as much to you,you says more to me, I says more to you, you says more to me, andhere I am, commander! Here I am, commander!" cries Phil, who hasstarted from his chair and unaccountably begun to sidle away. "If amark's wanted, or if it will improve the business, let the customerstake aim at me. They can't spoil MY beauty. I'M all right. Come on!If they want a man to box at, let 'em box at me. Let 'em knock mewell about the head. I don't mind. If they want a light-weight to bethrowed for practice, Cornwall, Devonshire, or Lancashire, let 'emthrow me. They won't hurt ME. I have been throwed, all sorts ofstyles, all my life!"
With this unexpected speech, energetically delivered and accompaniedby action illustrative of the various exercises referred to, PhilSquod shoulders his way round three sides of the gallery, andabruptly tacking off at his commander, makes a butt at him with hishead, intended to express devotion to his service. He then begins toclear away the breakfast.
Mr. George, after laughing cheerfully and clapping him on theshoulder, assists in these arrangements and helps to get the galleryinto business order. That done, he takes a turn at the dumb-bells,and afterwards weighing himself and opining that he is getting "toofleshy," engages with great gravity in solitary broadsword practice.Meanwhile Phil has fallen to work at his usual table, where he screwsand unscrews, and cleans, and files, and whistles into smallapertures, and blackens himself more and more, and seems to do andundo everything that can be done and undone about a gun.
Master and man are at length disturbed by footsteps in the passage,where they make an unusual sound, denoting the arrival of unusualcompany. These steps, advancing nearer and nearer to the gallery,bring into it a group at first sight scarcely reconcilable with anyday in the year but the fifth of November.
It consists of a limp and ugly figure carried in a chair by twobearers and attended by a lean female with a face like a pinchedmask, who might be expected immediately to recite the popular versescommemorative of the time when they did contrive to blow Old Englandup alive but for her keeping her lips tightly and defiantly closed asthe chair is put down. At which point the figure in it gasping, "OLord! Oh, dear me! I am shaken!" adds, "How de do, my dear friend,how de do?" Mr. George then descries, in the procession, thevenerable Mr. Smallweed out for an airing, attended by hisgranddaughter Judy as body-guard.
"Mr. George, my dear friend," says Grandfather Smallweed, removinghis right arm from the neck of one of his bearers, whom he has nearlythrottled coming along, "how de do? You're surprised to see me, mydear friend."
"I should hardly have been more surprised to have seen your friend inthe city," returns Mr. George.
"I am very seldom out," pants Mr. Smallweed. "I haven't been out formany months. It's inconvenient--and it comes expensive. But I longedso much to see you, my dear Mr. George. How de do, sir?"
"I am well enough," says Mr. George. "I hope you are the same."
"You can't be too well, my dear friend." Mr. Smallweed takes him byboth hands. "I have brought my granddaughter Judy. I couldn't keepher away. She longed so much to see you."
"Hum! She bears it calmly!" mutters Mr. George.
"So we got a hackney-cab, and put a chair in it, and just round thecorner they lifted me out of the cab and into the chair, and carriedme here that I might see my dear friend in his own establishment!This," says Grandfather Smallweed, alluding to the bearer, who hasbeen in danger of strangulation and who withdraws adjusting hiswindpipe, "is the driver of the cab. He has nothing extra. It is byagreement included in his fare. This person," the other bearer, "weengaged in the street outside for a pint of beer. Which is twopence.Judy, give the person twopence. I was not sure you had a workman ofyour own here, my dear friend, or we needn't have employed thisperson."
Grandfather Smallweed refers to Phil with a glance of considerableterror and a half-subdued "O Lord! Oh, dear me!" Nor in hisapprehension, on the surface of things, without some reason, forPhil, who has never beheld the apparition in the black-velvet capbefore, has stopped short with a gun in his hand with much of the airof a dead shot intent on picking Mr. Smallweed off as an ugly oldbird of the crow species.
"Judy, my child," says Grandfather Smallweed, "give the person histwopence. It's a great deal for what he has done."
The person, who is one of those extraordinary specimens of humanfungus that spring up spontaneously in the western streets of London,ready dressed in an old red jacket, with a "mission" for holdinghorses and calling coaches, received his twopence with anything buttransport, tosses the money into the air, catches it over-handed, andretires.
"My dear Mr. George," says Grandfather Smallweed, "would you be sokind as help to carry me to the fire? I am accustomed to a fire, andI am an old man, and I soon chill. Oh, dear me!"
His closing exclamation is jerked out of the venerable gentleman bythe suddenness with which Mr. Squod, like a genie, catches him up,chair and all, and deposits him on the hearth-stone.
"O Lord!" says Mr. Smallweed, panting. "Oh, dear me! Oh, my stars! Mydear friend, your workman is very strong--and very prompt. O Lord, heis very prompt! Judy, draw me back a little. I'm being scorched inthe legs," which indeed is testified to the noses of all present bythe smell of his worsted stockings.
The gentle Judy, having backed her grandfather a little way from thefire, and having shaken him up as usual, and having released hisovershadowed eye from its black-velvet extinguisher, Mr. Smallweedagain says, "Oh, dear me! O Lord!" and looking about and meeting Mr.George's glance, again stretches out both hands.
"My dear friend! So happy in this meeting! And this is yourestablishment? It's a delightful place. It's a picture! You neverfind that anything goes off here accidentally, do you, my dearfriend?" adds Grandfather Smallweed, very ill at ease.
"No, no. No fear of that."
"And your workman. He--Oh, dear me!--he never lets anything offwithout meaning it, does he, my dear friend?"
"He has never hurt anybody but himself," says Mr. George, smiling.
"But he might, you know. He seems to have hurt himself a good deal,and he might hurt somebody else," the old gentleman returns. "Hemightn't mean it--or he even might. Mr. George, will you order him toleave his infernal fire-arms alone and go away?"
Obedient to a nod from the trooper, Phil retires, empty-handed, tothe other end of the gallery. Mr. Smallweed, reassured, falls torubbing his legs.
"And you're doing well, Mr. George?" he says to the trooper, squarelystanding faced about towards him with his broadsword in his hand."You are prospering, please the Powers?"
Mr. George answers with a cool nod, adding, "Go on. You have not cometo say that, I know."
"You are so sprightly, Mr. George," returns the venerablegrandfather. "You are such good company."
"Ha ha! Go on!" says Mr. George.
"My dear friend! But that sword looks awful gleaming and sharp. Itmight cut somebody, by accident. It makes me shiver, Mr. George.Curse him!" says the excellent old gentleman apart to Judy as thetrooper takes a step or two away to lay it aside. "He owes me money,and might think of paying off old scores in this murdering place. Iwish your brimstone grandmother was here, and he'd shave her headoff."
Mr. George, returning, folds his arms, and looking down at the oldman, sliding every moment lower and lower in his chair, says quietly,"Now for it!"
"Ho!" cries Mr. Smallweed, rubbing his hands with an artful chuckle."Yes. Now for it. Now for what, my dear friend?"
"For a pipe," says Mr. George, who with great composure sets hischair in the chimney-corner, takes his pipe from the grate, fills itand lights it, and falls to smoking peacefully.
This tends to the discomfiture of Mr. Smallweed, who finds it sodifficult to resume his object, whatever it may be, that he becomesexasperated and secretly claws the air with an impotentvindictiveness expressive of an intense desire to tear and rend thevisage of Mr. George. As the excellent old gentleman's nails are longand leaden, and his hands lean and veinous, and his eyes green andwatery; and, over and above this, as he continues, while he claws, toslide down in his chair and to collapse into a shapeless bundle, hebecomes such a ghastly spectacle, even in the accustomed eyes ofJudy, that that young virgin pounces at him with something more thanthe ardour of affection and so shakes him up and pats and pokes himin divers parts of his body, but particularly in that part which thescience of self-defence would call his wind, that in his grievousdistress he utters enforced sounds like a paviour's rammer.
When Judy has by these means set him up again in his chair, with awhite face and a frosty nose (but still clawing), she stretches outher weazen forefinger and gives Mr. George one poke in the back. Thetrooper raising his head, she makes another poke at her esteemedgrandfather, and having thus brought them together, stares rigidly atthe fire.
"Aye, aye! Ho, ho! U--u--u--ugh!" chatters Grandfather Smallweed,swallowing his rage. "My dear friend!" (still clawing).
"I tell you what," says Mr. George. "If you want to converse with me,you must speak out. I am one of the roughs, and I can't go about andabout. I haven't the art to do it. I am not clever enough. It don'tsuit me. When you go winding round and round me," says the trooper,putting his pipe between his lips again, "damme, if I don't feel asif I was being smothered!"
And he inflates his broad chest to its utmost extent as if to assurehimself that he is not smothered yet.
"If you have come to give me a friendly call," continues Mr. George,"I am obliged to you; how are you? If you have come to see whetherthere's any property on the premises, look about you; you arewelcome. If you want to out with something, out with it!"
The blooming Judy, without removing her gaze from the fire, gives hergrandfather one ghostly poke.
"You see! It's her opinion too. And why the devil that young womanwon't sit down like a Christian," says Mr. George with his eyesmusingly fixed on Judy, "I can't comprehend."
"She keeps at my side to attend to me, sir," says GrandfatherSmallweed. "I am an old man, my dear Mr. George, and I need someattention. I can carry my years; I am not a brimstone poll-parrot"(snarling and looking unconsciously for the cushion), "but I needattention, my dear friend."
"Well!" returns the trooper, wheeling his chair to face the old man."Now then?"
"My friend in the city, Mr. George, has done a little business with apupil of yours."
"Has he?" says Mr. George. "I am sorry to hear it."
"Yes, sir." Grandfather Smallweed rubs his legs. "He is a fine youngsoldier now, Mr. George, by the name of Carstone. Friends cameforward and paid it all up, honourable."
"Did they?" returns Mr. George. "Do you think your friend in the citywould like a piece of advice?"
"I think he would, my dear friend. From you."
"I advise him, then, to do no more business in that quarter. There'sno more to be got by it. The young gentleman, to my knowledge, isbrought to a dead halt."
"No, no, my dear friend. No, no, Mr. George. No, no, no, sir,"remonstrates Grandfather Smallweed, cunningly rubbing his spare legs."Not quite a dead halt, I think. He has good friends, and he is goodfor his pay, and he is good for the selling price of his commission,and he is good for his chance in a lawsuit, and he is good for hischance in a wife, and--oh, do you know, Mr. George, I think my friendwould consider the young gentleman good for something yet?" saysGrandfather Smallweed, turning up his velvet cap and scratching hisear like a monkey.
Mr. George, who has put aside his pipe and sits with an arm on hischair-back, beats a tattoo on the ground with his right foot as if hewere not particularly pleased with the turn the conversation hastaken.
"But to pass from one subject to another," resumes Mr. Smallweed."'To promote the conversation,' as a joker might say. To pass, Mr.George, from the ensign to the captain."
"What are you up to, now?" asks Mr. George, pausing with a frown instroking the recollection of his moustache. "What captain?"
"Our captain. The captain we know of. Captain Hawdon."
"Oh! That's it, is it?" says Mr. George with a low whistle as he seesboth grandfather and granddaughter looking hard at him. "You arethere! Well? What about it? Come, I won't be smothered any more.Speak!"
"My dear friend," returns the old man, "I was applied--Judy, shake meup a little!--I was applied to yesterday about the captain, and myopinion still is that the captain is not dead."
"Bosh!" observes Mr. George.
"What was your remark, my dear friend?" inquires the old man with hishand to his ear.
"Bosh!"
"Ho!" says Grandfather Smallweed. "Mr. George, of my opinion you canjudge for yourself according to the questions asked of me and thereasons given for asking 'em. Now, what do you think the lawyermaking the inquiries wants?"
"A job," says Mr. George.
"Nothing of the kind!"
"Can't be a lawyer, then," says Mr. George, folding his arms with anair of confirmed resolution.
"My dear friend, he is a lawyer, and a famous one. He wants to seesome fragment in Captain Hawdon's writing. He don't want to keep it.He only wants to see it and compare it with a writing in hispossession."
"Well?"
"Well, Mr. George. Happening to remember the advertisement concerningCaptain Hawdon and any information that could be given respectinghim, he looked it up and came to me--just as you did, my dear friend.WILL you shake hands? So glad you came that day! I should have missedforming such a friendship if you hadn't come!"
"Well, Mr. Smallweed?" says Mr. George again after going through theceremony with some stiffness.
"I had no such thing. I have nothing but his signature. Plaguepestilence and famine, battle murder and sudden death upon him," saysthe old man, making a curse out of one of his few remembrances of aprayer and squeezing up his velvet cap between his angry hands, "Ihave half a million of his signatures, I think! But you,"breathlessly recovering his mildness of speech as Judy re-adjusts thecap on his skittle-ball of a head, "you, my dear Mr. George, arelikely to have some letter or paper that would suit the purpose.Anything would suit the purpose, written in the hand."
"Some writing in that hand," says the trooper, pondering; "may be, Ihave."
"My dearest friend!"
"May be, I have not."
"Ho!" says Grandfather Smallweed, crest-fallen.
"But if I had bushels of it, I would not show as much as would make acartridge without knowing why."
"Sir, I have told you why. My dear Mr. George, I have told you why."
"Not enough," says the trooper, shaking his head. "I must know more,and approve it."
"Then, will you come to the lawyer? My dear friend, will you come andsee the gentleman?" urges Grandfather Smallweed, pulling out a leanold silver watch with hands like the leg of a skeleton. "I told himit was probable I might call upon him between ten and eleven thisforenoon, and it's now half after ten. Will you come and see thegentleman, Mr. George?"
"Hum!" says he gravely. "I don't mind that. Though why this shouldconcern you so much, I don't know."
"Everything concerns me that has a chance in it of bringing anythingto light about him. Didn't he take us all in? Didn't he owe usimmense sums, all round? Concern me? Who can anything about himconcern more than me? Not, my dear friend," says GrandfatherSmallweed, lowering his tone, "that I want YOU to betray anything.Far from it. Are you ready to come, my dear friend?"
"Aye! I'll come in a moment. I promise nothing, you know."
"No, my dear Mr. George; no."
"And you mean to say you're going to give me a lift to this place,wherever it is, without charging for it?" Mr. George inquires,getting his hat and thick wash-leather gloves.
This pleasantry so tickles Mr. Smallweed that he laughs, long andlow, before the fire. But ever while he laughs, he glances over hisparalytic shoulder at Mr. George and eagerly watches him as heunlocks the padlock of a homely cupboard at the distant end of thegallery, looks here and there upon the higher shelves, and ultimatelytakes something out with a rustling of paper, folds it, and puts itin his breast. Then Judy pokes Mr. Smallweed once, and Mr. Smallweedpokes Judy once.
"I am ready," says the trooper, coming back. "Phil, you can carrythis old gentleman to his coach, and make nothing of him."
"Oh, dear me! O Lord! Stop a moment!" says Mr. Smallweed. "He's sovery prompt! Are you sure you can do it carefully, my worthy man?"
Phil makes no reply, but seizing the chair and its load, sidles away,tightly hugged by the now speechless Mr. Smallweed, and bolts alongthe passage as if he had an acceptable commission to carry the oldgentleman to the nearest volcano. His shorter trust, however,terminating at the cab, he deposits him there; and the fair Judytakes her place beside him, and the chair embellishes the roof, andMr. George takes the vacant place upon the box.
Mr. George is quite confounded by the spectacle he beholds from timeto time as he peeps into the cab through the window behind him, wherethe grim Judy is always motionless, and the old gentleman with hiscap over one eye is always sliding off the seat into the straw andlooking upward at him out of his other eye with a helpless expressionof being jolted in the back.



CHAPTER XXVII
More Old Soldiers Than One

Mr. George has not far to ride with folded arms upon the box, fortheir destination is Lincoln's Inn Fields. When the driver stops hishorses, Mr. George alights, and looking in at the window, says,"What, Mr. Tulkinghorn's your man, is he?"
"Yes, my dear friend. Do you know him, Mr. George?"
"Why, I have heard of him--seen him too, I think. But I don't knowhim, and he don't know me."
There ensues the carrying of Mr. Smallweed upstairs, which is done toperfection with the trooper's help. He is borne into Mr.Tulkinghorn's great room and deposited on the Turkey rug before thefire. Mr. Tulkinghorn is not within at the present moment but will beback directly. The occupant of the pew in the hall, having said thusmuch, stirs the fire and leaves the triumvirate to warm themselves.
Mr. George is mightily curious in respect of the room. He looks up atthe painted ceiling, looks round at the old law-books, contemplatesthe portraits of the great clients, reads aloud the names on theboxes.
"'Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,'" Mr. George reads thoughtfully."Ha! 'Manor of Chesney Wold.' Humph!" Mr. George stands looking atthese boxes a long while--as if they were pictures--and comes back tothe fire repeating, "Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and Manor ofChesney Wold, hey?"
"Worth a mint of money, Mr. George!" whispers Grandfather Smallweed,rubbing his legs. "Powerfully rich!"
"Who do you mean? This old gentleman, or the Baronet?"
"This gentleman, this gentleman."
"So I have heard; and knows a thing or two, I'll hold a wager. Notbad quarters, either," says Mr. George, looking round again. "See thestrong-box yonder!"
This reply is cut short by Mr. Tulkinghorn's arrival. There is nochange in him, of course. Rustily drest, with his spectacles in hishand, and their very case worn threadbare. In manner, close and dry.In voice, husky and low. In face, watchful behind a blind; habituallynot uncensorious and contemptuous perhaps. The peerage may havewarmer worshippers and faithfuller believers than Mr. Tulkinghorn,after all, if everything were known.
"Good morning, Mr. Smallweed, good morning!" he says as he comes in."You have brought the sergeant, I see. Sit down, sergeant."
As Mr. Tulkinghorn takes off his gloves and puts them in his hat, helooks with half-closed eyes across the room to where the trooperstands and says within himself perchance, "You'll do, my friend!"
"Sit down, sergeant," he repeats as he comes to his table, which isset on one side of the fire, and takes his easy-chair. "Cold and rawthis morning, cold and raw!" Mr. Tulkinghorn warms before the bars,alternately, the palms and knuckles of his hands and looks (frombehind that blind which is always down) at the trio sitting in alittle semicircle before him.
"Now, I can feel what I am about" (as perhaps he can in two senses),"Mr. Smallweed." The old gentleman is newly shaken up by Judy to bearhis part in the conversation. "You have brought our good friend thesergeant, I see."
"Yes, sir," returns Mr. Smallweed, very servile to the lawyer'swealth and influence.
"And what does the sergeant say about this business?"
"Mr. George," says Grandfather Smallweed with a tremulous wave of hisshrivelled hand, "this is the gentleman, sir."
Mr. George salutes the gentleman but otherwise sits bolt upright andprofoundly silent--very forward in his chair, as if the fullcomplement of regulation appendages for a field-day hung about him.
Mr. Tulkinghorn proceeds, "Well, George--I believe your name isGeorge?"
"It is so, Sir."
"What do you say, George?"
"I ask your pardon, sir," returns the trooper, "but I should wish toknow what YOU say?"
"Do you mean in point of reward?"
"I mean in point of everything, sir."
This is so very trying to Mr. Smallweed's temper that he suddenlybreaks out with "You're a brimstone beast!" and as suddenly askspardon of Mr. Tulkinghorn, excusing himself for this slip of thetongue by saying to Judy, "I was thinking of your grandmother, mydear."
"I supposed, sergeant," Mr. Tulkinghorn resumes as he leans on oneside of his chair and crosses his legs, "that Mr. Smallweed mighthave sufficiently explained the matter. It lies in the smallestcompass, however. You served under Captain Hawdon at one time, andwere his attendant in illness, and rendered him many little services,and were rather in his confidence, I am told. That is so, is it not?"
"Yes, sir, that is so," says Mr. George with military brevity.
"Therefore you may happen to have in your possessionsomething--anything, no matter what; accounts, instructions, orders,a letter, anything--in Captain Hawdon's writing. I wish to comparehis writing with some that I have. If you can give me theopportunity, you shall be rewarded for your trouble. Three, four,five, guineas, you would consider handsome, I dare say."
"Noble, my dear friend!" cries Grandfather Smallweed, screwing up hiseyes.
"If not, say how much more, in your conscience as a soldier, you candemand. There is no need for you to part with the writing, againstyour inclination--though I should prefer to have it."
Mr. George sits squared in exactly the same attitude, looks at thepainted ceiling, and says never a word. The irascible Mr. Smallweedscratches the air.
"The question is," says Mr. Tulkinghorn in his methodical, subdued,uninterested way, "first, whether you have any of Captain Hawdon'swriting?"
"First, whether I have any of Captain Hawdon's writing, sir," repeatsMr. George.
"Secondly, what will satisfy you for the trouble of producing it?"
"Secondly, what will satisfy me for the trouble of producing it,sir," repeats Mr. George.
"Thirdly, you can judge for yourself whether it is at all like that,"says Mr. Tulkinghorn, suddenly handing him some sheets of writtenpaper tied together.
"Whether it is at all like that, sir. Just so," repeats Mr. George.
All three repetitions Mr. George pronounces in a mechanical manner,looking straight at Mr. Tulkinghorn; nor does he so much as glance atthe affidavit in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, that has been given to himfor his inspection (though he still holds it in his hand), butcontinues to look at the lawyer with an air of troubled meditation.
"Well?" says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "What do you say?"
"Well, sir," replies Mr. George, rising erect and looking immense, "Iwould rather, if you'll excuse me, have nothing to do with this."
Mr. Tulkinghorn, outwardly quite undisturbed, demands, "Why not?"
"Why, sir," returns the trooper. "Except on military compulsion, I amnot a man of business. Among civilians I am what they call inScotland a ne'er-do-weel. I have no head for papers, sir. I can standany fire better than a fire of cross questions. I mentioned to Mr.Smallweed, only an hour or so ago, that when I come into things ofthis kind I feel as if I was being smothered. And that is mysensation," says Mr. George, looking round upon the company, "at thepresent moment."
With that, he takes three strides forward to replace the papers onthe lawyer's table and three strides backward to resume his formerstation, where he stands perfectly upright, now looking at the groundand now at the painted ceiling, with his hands behind him as if toprevent himself from accepting any other document whatever.
Under this provocation, Mr. Smallweed's favourite adjective ofdisparagement is so close to his tongue that he begins the words "mydear friend" with the monosyllable "brim," thus converting thepossessive pronoun into brimmy and appearing to have an impediment inhis speech. Once past this difficulty, however, he exhorts his dearfriend in the tenderest manner not to be rash, but to do what soeminent a gentleman requires, and to do it with a good grace,confident that it must be unobjectionable as well as profitable. Mr.Tulkinghorn merely utters an occasional sentence, as, "You are thebest judge of your own interest, sergeant." "Take care you do no harmby this." "Please yourself, please yourself." "If you know what youmean, that's quite enough." These he utters with an appearance ofperfect indifference as he looks over the papers on his table andprepares to write a letter.
Mr. George looks distrustfully from the painted ceiling to theground, from the ground to Mr. Smallweed, from Mr. Smallweed to Mr.Tulkinghorn, and from Mr. Tulkinghorn to the painted ceiling again,often in his perplexity changing the leg on which he rests.
"I do assure you, sir," says Mr. George, "not to say it offensively,that between you and Mr. Smallweed here, I really am being smotheredfifty times over. I really am, sir. I am not a match for yougentlemen. Will you allow me to ask why you want to see the captain'shand, in the case that I could find any specimen of it?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn quietly shakes his head. "No. If you were a man ofbusiness, sergeant, you would not need to be informed that there areconfidential reasons, very harmless in themselves, for many suchwants in the profession to which I belong. But if you are afraid ofdoing any injury to Captain Hawdon, you may set your mind at restabout that."
"Aye! He is dead, sir."
"IS he?" Mr. Tulkinghorn quietly sits down to write.
"Well, sir," says the trooper, looking into his hat after anotherdisconcerted pause, "I am sorry not to have given you moresatisfaction. If it would be any satisfaction to any one that Ishould be confirmed in my judgment that I would rather have nothingto do with this by a friend of mine who has a better head forbusiness than I have, and who is an old soldier, I am willing toconsult with him. I--I really am so completely smothered myself atpresent," says Mr. George, passing his hand hopelessly across hisbrow, "that I don't know but what it might be a satisfaction to me."
Mr. Smallweed, hearing that this authority is an old soldier, sostrongly inculcates the expediency of the trooper's taking counselwith him, and particularly informing him of its being a question offive guineas or more, that Mr. George engages to go and see him. Mr.Tulkinghorn says nothing either way.
"I'll consult my friend, then, by your leave, sir," says the trooper,"and I'll take the liberty of looking in again with the final answerin the course of the day. Mr. Smallweed, if you wish to be carrieddownstairs--"
"In a moment, my dear friend, in a moment. Will you first let mespeak half a word with this gentleman in private?"
"Certainly, sir. Don't hurry yourself on my account." The trooperretires to a distant part of the room and resumes his curiousinspection of the boxes, strong and otherwise.
"If I wasn't as weak as a brimstone baby, sir," whispers GrandfatherSmallweed, drawing the lawyer down to his level by the lapel of hiscoat and flashing some half-quenched green fire out of his angryeyes, "I'd tear the writing away from him. He's got it buttoned inhis breast. I saw him put it there. Judy saw him put it there. Speakup, you crabbed image for the sign of a walking-stick shop, and sayyou saw him put it there!"
This vehement conjuration the old gentleman accompanies with such athrust at his granddaughter that it is too much for his strength, andhe slips away out of his chair, drawing Mr. Tulkinghorn with him,until he is arrested by Judy, and well shaken.
"Violence will not do for me, my friend," Mr. Tulkinghorn thenremarks coolly.
"No, no, I know, I know, sir. But it's chafing andgalling--it's--it's worse than your smattering chattering magpie of agrandmother," to the imperturbable Judy, who only looks at the fire,"to know he has got what's wanted and won't give it up. He, not togive it up! HE! A vagabond! But never mind, sir, never mind. At themost, he has only his own way for a little while. I have himperiodically in a vice. I'll twist him, sir. I'll screw him, sir. Ifhe won't do it with a good grace, I'll make him do it with a bad one,sir! Now, my dear Mr. George," says Grandfather Smallweed, winking atthe lawyer hideously as he releases him, "I am ready for your kindassistance, my excellent friend!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn, with some shadowy sign of amusement manifestingitself through his self-possession, stands on the hearth-rug with hisback to the fire, watching the disappearance of Mr. Smallweed andacknowledging the trooper's parting salute with one slight nod.
It is more difficult to get rid of the old gentleman, Mr. Georgefinds, than to bear a hand in carrying him downstairs, for when he isreplaced in his conveyance, he is so loquacious on the subject of theguineas and retains such an affectionate hold of his button--having,in truth, a secret longing to rip his coat open and rob him--thatsome degree of force is necessary on the trooper's part to effect aseparation. It is accomplished at last, and he proceeds alone inquest of his adviser.
By the cloisterly Temple, and by Whitefriars (there, not without aglance at Hanging-Sword Alley, which would seem to be something inhis way), and by Blackfriars Bridge, and Blackfriars Road, Mr. Georgesedately marches to a street of little shops lying somewhere in thatganglion of roads from Kent and Surrey, and of streets from thebridges of London, centring in the far-famed elephant who has losthis castle formed of a thousand four-horse coaches to a stronger ironmonster than he, ready to chop him into mince-meat any day he dares.To one of the little shops in this street, which is a musician'sshop, having a few fiddles in the window, and some Pan's pipes and atambourine, and a triangle, and certain elongated scraps of music,Mr. George directs his massive tread. And halting at a few paces fromit, as he sees a soldierly looking woman, with her outer skirtstucked up, come forth with a small wooden tub, and in that tubcommence a-whisking and a-splashing on the margin of the pavement,Mr. George says to himself, "She's as usual, washing greens. I neversaw her, except upon a baggage-waggon, when she wasn't washinggreens!"
The subject of this reflection is at all events so occupied inwashing greens at present that she remains unsuspicious of Mr.George's approach until, lifting up herself and her tub together whenshe has poured the water off into the gutter, she finds him standingnear her. Her reception of him is not flattering.
"George, I never see you but I wish you was a hundred mile away!"
The trooper, without remarking on this welcome, follows into themusical-instrument shop, where the lady places her tub of greens uponthe counter, and having shaken hands with him, rests her arms uponit.
"I never," she says, "George, consider Matthew Bagnet safe a minutewhen you're near him. You are that restless and that roving--"
"Yes! I know I am, Mrs. Bagnet. I know I am."
"You know you are!" says Mrs. Bagnet. "What's the use of that? WHYare you?"
"The nature of the animal, I suppose," returns the troopergood-humouredly.
"Ah!" cries Mrs. Bagnet, something shrilly. "But what satisfactionwill the nature of the animal be to me when the animal shall havetempted my Mat away from the musical business to New Zealand orAustraley?"
Mrs. Bagnet is not at all an ill-looking woman. Rather large-boned, alittle coarse in the grain, and freckled by the sun and wind whichhave tanned her hair upon the forehead, but healthy, wholesome, andbright-eyed. A strong, busy, active, honest-faced woman of fromforty-five to fifty. Clean, hardy, and so economically dressed(though substantially) that the only article of ornament of which shestands possessed appear's to be her wedding-ring, around which herfinger has grown to be so large since it was put on that it willnever come off again until it shall mingle with Mrs. Bagnet's dust.
"Mrs. Bagnet," says the trooper, "I am on my parole with you. Matwill get no harm from me. You may trust me so far."
"Well, I think I may. But the very looks of you are unsettling," Mrs.Bagnet rejoins. "Ah, George, George! If you had only settled down andmarried Joe Pouch's widow when he died in North America, SHE'D havecombed your hair for you."
"It was a chance for me, certainly," returns the trooper halflaughingly, half seriously, "but I shall never settle down into arespectable man now. Joe Pouch's widow might have done me good--therewas something in her, and something of her--but I couldn't make up mymind to it. If I had had the luck to meet with such a wife as Matfound!"
Mrs. Bagnet, who seems in a virtuous way to be under little reservewith a good sort of fellow, but to be another good sort of fellowherself for that matter, receives this compliment by flicking Mr.George in the face with a head of greens and taking her tub into thelittle room behind the shop.
"Why, Quebec, my poppet," says George, following, on invitation, intothat department. "And little Malta, too! Come and kiss your Bluffy!"
These young ladies--not supposed to have been actually christened bythe names applied to them, though always so called in the family fromthe places of their birth in barracks--are respectively employed onthree-legged stools, the younger (some five or six years old) inlearning her letters out of a penny primer, the elder (eight or nineperhaps) in teaching her and sewing with great assiduity. Both hailMr. George with acclamations as an old friend and after some kissingand romping plant their stools beside him.
"And how's young Woolwich?" says Mr. George.
"Ah! There now!" cries Mrs. Bagnet, turning about from her saucepans(for she is cooking dinner) with a bright flush on her face. "Wouldyou believe it? Got an engagement at the theayter, with his father,to play the fife in a military piece."
"Well done, my godson!" cries Mr. George, slapping his thigh.
"I believe you!" says Mrs. Bagnet. "He's a Briton. That's whatWoolwich is. A Briton!"
"And Mat blows away at his bassoon, and you're respectable civiliansone and all," says Mr. George. "Family people. Children growing up.Mat's old mother in Scotland, and your old father somewhere else,corresponded with, and helped a little, and--well, well! To be sure,I don't know why I shouldn't be wished a hundred mile away, for Ihave not much to do with all this!"
Mr. George is becoming thoughtful, sitting before the fire in thewhitewashed room, which has a sanded floor and a barrack smell andcontains nothing superfluous and has not a visible speck of dirt ordust in it, from the faces of Quebec and Malta to the bright tin potsand pannikins upon the dresser shelves--Mr. George is becomingthoughtful, sitting here while Mrs. Bagnet is busy, when Mr. Bagnetand young Woolwich opportunely come home. Mr. Bagnet is anex-artilleryman, tall and upright, with shaggy eyebrows and whiskerslike the fibres of a coco-nut, not a hair upon his head, and a torridcomplexion. His voice, short, deep, and resonant, is not at allunlike the tones of the instrument to which he is devoted. Indeedthere may be generally observed in him an unbending, unyielding,brass-bound air, as if he were himself the bassoon of the humanorchestra. Young Woolwich is the type and model of a young drummer.
Both father and son salute the trooper heartily. He saying, in dueseason, that he has come to advise with Mr. Bagnet, Mr. Bagnethospitably declares that he will hear of no business until afterdinner and that his friend shall not partake of his counsel withoutfirst partaking of boiled pork and greens. The trooper yielding tothis invitation, he and Mr. Bagnet, not to embarrass the domesticpreparations, go forth to take a turn up and down the little street,which they promenade with measured tread and folded arms, as if itwere a rampart.
"George," says Mr. Bagnet. "You know me. It's my old girl thatadvises. She has the head. But I never own to it before her.Discipline must be maintained. Wait till the greens is off her mind.Then we'll consult. Whatever the old girl says, do--do it!"
"I intend to, Mat," replies the other. "I would sooner take heropinion than that of a college."
"College," returns Mr. Bagnet in short sentences, bassoon-like. "Whatcollege could you leave--in another quarter of the world--withnothing but a grey cloak and an umbrella--to make its way home toEurope? The old girl would do it to-morrow. Did it once!"
"You are right," says Mr. George.
"What college," pursues Bagnet, "could you set up in life--with twopenn'orth of white lime--a penn'orth of fuller's earth--a ha'porth ofsand--and the rest of the change out of sixpence in money? That'swhat the old girl started on. In the present business."
"I am rejoiced to hear it's thriving, Mat."
"The old girl," says Mr. Bagnet, acquiescing, "saves. Has a stockingsomewhere. With money in it. I never saw it. But I know she's got it.Wait till the greens is off her mind. Then she'll set you up."
"She is a treasure!" exclaims Mr. George.
"She's more. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must bemaintained. It was the old girl that brought out my musicalabilities. I should have been in the artillery now but for the oldgirl. Six years I hammered at the fiddle. Ten at the flute. The oldgirl said it wouldn't do; intention good, but want of flexibility;try the bassoon. The old girl borrowed a bassoon from the bandmasterof the Rifle Regiment. I practised in the trenches. Got on, gotanother, get a living by it!"
George remarks that she looks as fresh as a rose and as sound as anapple.
"The old girl," says Mr. Bagnet in reply, "is a thoroughly finewoman. Consequently she is like a thoroughly fine day. Gets finer asshe gets on. I never saw the old girl's equal. But I never own to itbefore her. Discipline must be maintained!"
Proceeding to converse on indifferent matters, they walk up and downthe little street, keeping step and time, until summoned by Quebecand Malta to do justice to the pork and greens, over which Mrs.Bagnet, like a military chaplain, says a short grace. In thedistribution of these comestibles, as in every other household duty,Mrs. Bagnet developes an exact system, sitting with every dish beforeher, allotting to every portion of pork its own portion ofpot-liquor, greens, potatoes, and even mustard, and serving it outcomplete. Having likewise served out the beer from a can and thussupplied the mess with all things necessary, Mrs. Bagnet proceeds tosatisfy her own hunger, which is in a healthy state. The kit of themess, if the table furniture may be so denominated, is chieflycomposed of utensils of horn and tin that have done duty in severalparts of the world. Young Woolwich's knife, in particular, which isof the oyster kind, with the additional feature of a strongshutting-up movement which frequently balks the appetite of thatyoung musician, is mentioned as having gone in various hands thecomplete round of foreign service.
The dinner done, Mrs. Bagnet, assisted by the younger branches (whopolish their own cups and platters, knives and forks), makes all thedinner garniture shine as brightly as before and puts it all away,first sweeping the hearth, to the end that Mr. Bagnet and the visitormay not be retarded in the smoking of their pipes. These householdcares involve much pattening and counter-pattening in the backyardand considerable use of a pail, which is finally so happy as toassist in the ablutions of Mrs. Bagnet herself. That old girlreappearing by and by, quite fresh, and sitting down to herneedlework, then and only then--the greens being only then to beconsidered as entirely off her mind--Mr. Bagnet requests the trooperto state his case.
This Mr. George does with great discretion, appearing to addresshimself to Mr. Bagnet, but having an eye solely on the old girl allthe time, as Bagnet has himself. She, equally discreet, busiesherself with her needlework. The case fully stated, Mr. Bagnetresorts to his standard artifice for the maintenance of discipline.
"That's the whole of it, is it, George?" says he.
"That's the whole of it."
"You act according to my opinion?"
"I shall be guided," replies George, "entirely by it."
"Old girl," says Mr. Bagnet, "give him my opinion. You know it. Tellhim what it is."
It is that he cannot have too little to do with people who are toodeep for him and cannot be too careful of interference with mattershe does not understand--that the plain rule is to do nothing in thedark, to be a party to nothing underhanded or mysterious, and neverto put his foot where he cannot see the ground. This, in effect, isMr. Bagnet's opinion, as delivered through the old girl, and it sorelieves Mr. George's mind by confirming his own opinion andbanishing his doubts that he composes himself to smoke another pipeon that exceptional occasion and to have a talk over old times withthe whole Bagnet family, according to their various ranges ofexperience.
Through these means it comes to pass that Mr. George does not againrise to his full height in that parlour until the time is drawing onwhen the bassoon and fife are expected by a British public at thetheatre; and as it takes time even then for Mr. George, in hisdomestic character of Bluffy, to take leave of Quebec and Malta andinsinuate a sponsorial shilling into the pocket of his godson withfelicitations on his success in life, it is dark when Mr. Georgeagain turns his face towards Lincoln's Inn Fields.
"A family home," he ruminates as he marches along, "however small itis, makes a man like me look lonely. But it's well I never made thatevolution of matrimony. I shouldn't have been fit for it. I am such avagabond still, even at my present time of life, that I couldn't holdto the gallery a month together if it was a regular pursuit or if Ididn't camp there, gipsy fashion. Come! I disgrace nobody and cumbernobody; that's something. I have not done that for many a long year!"
So he whistles it off and marches on.
Arrived in Lincoln's Inn Fields and mounting Mr. Tulkinghorn's stair,he finds the outer door closed and the chambers shut, but the troopernot knowing much about outer doors, and the staircase being darkbesides, he is yet fumbling and groping about, hoping to discover abell-handle or to open the door for himself, when Mr. Tulkinghorncomes up the stairs (quietly, of course) and angrily asks, "Who isthat? What are you doing there?"
"I ask your pardon, sir. It's George. The sergeant."
"And couldn't George, the sergeant, see that my door was locked?"
"Why, no, sir, I couldn't. At any rate, I didn't," says the trooper,rather nettled.
"Have you changed your mind? Or are you in the same mind?" Mr.Tulkinghorn demands. But he knows well enough at a glance.
"In the same mind, sir."
"I thought so. That's sufficient. You can go. So you are the man,"says Mr. Tulkinghorn, opening his door with the key, "in whosehiding-place Mr. Gridley was found?"
"Yes, I AM the man," says the trooper, stopping two or three stairsdown. "What then, sir?"
"What then? I don't like your associates. You should not have seenthe inside of my door this morning if I had thought of your beingthat man. Gridley? A threatening, murderous, dangerous fellow."
With these words, spoken in an unusually high tone for him, thelawyer goes into his rooms and shuts the door with a thunderingnoise.
Mr. George takes his dismissal in great dudgeon, the greater becausea clerk coming up the stairs has heard the last words of all andevidently applies them to him. "A pretty character to bear," thetrooper growls with a hasty oath as he strides downstairs. "Athreatening, murderous, dangerous fellow!" And looking up, he seesthe clerk looking down at him and marking him as he passes a lamp.This so intensifies his dudgeon that for five minutes he is in an illhumour. But he whistles that off like the rest of it and marches hometo the shooting gallery.



CHAPTER XXVIII
The Ironmaster

Sir Leicester Dedlock has got the better, for the time being, of thefamily gout and is once more, in a literal no less than in afigurative point of view, upon his legs. He is at his place inLincolnshire; but the waters are out again on the low-lying grounds,and the cold and damp steal into Chesney Wold, though well defended,and eke into Sir Leicester's bones. The blazing fires of faggot andcoal--Dedlock timber and antediluvian forest--that blaze upon thebroad wide hearths and wink in the twilight on the frowning woods,sullen to see how trees are sacrificed, do not exclude the enemy. Thehot-water pipes that trail themselves all over the house, thecushioned doors and windows, and the screens and curtains fail tosupply the fires' deficiencies and to satisfy Sir Leicester's need.Hence the fashionable intelligence proclaims one morning to thelistening earth that Lady Dedlock is expected shortly to return totown for a few weeks.
It is a melancholy truth that even great men have their poorrelations. Indeed great men have often more than their fair share ofpoor relations, inasmuch as very red blood of the superior quality,like inferior blood unlawfully shed, WILL cry aloud and WILL beheard. Sir Leicester's cousins, in the remotest degree, are so manymurders in the respect that they "will out." Among whom there arecousins who are so poor that one might almost dare to think it wouldhave been the happier for them never to have been plated links uponthe Dedlock chain of gold, but to have been made of common iron atfirst and done base service.
Service, however (with a few limited reservations, genteel but notprofitable), they may not do, being of the Dedlock dignity. So theyvisit their richer cousins, and get into debt when they can, and livebut shabbily when they can't, and find--the women no husbands, andthe men no wives--and ride in borrowed carriages, and sit at feaststhat are never of their own making, and so go through high life. Therich family sum has been divided by so many figures, and they are thesomething over that nobody knows what to do with.
Everybody on Sir Leicester Dedlock's side of the question and of hisway of thinking would appear to be his cousin more or less. From myLord Boodle, through the Duke of Foodle, down to Noodle, SirLeicester, like a glorious spider, stretches his threads ofrelationship. But while he is stately in the cousinship of theEverybodys, he is a kind and generous man, according to his dignifiedway, in the cousinship of the Nobodys; and at the present time, indespite of the damp, he stays out the visit of several such cousinsat Chesney Wold with the constancy of a martyr.
Of these, foremost in the front rank stands Volumnia Dedlock, a younglady (of sixty) who is doubly highly related, having the honour to bea poor relation, by the mother's side, to another great family. MissVolumnia, displaying in early life a pretty talent for cuttingornaments out of coloured paper, and also for singing to the guitarin the Spanish tongue, and propounding French conundrums in countryhouses, passed the twenty years of her existence between twenty andforty in a sufficiently agreeable manner. Lapsing then out of dateand being considered to bore mankind by her vocal performances in theSpanish language, she retired to Bath, where she lives slenderly onan annual present from Sir Leicester and whence she makes occasionalresurrections in the country houses of her cousins. She has anextensive acquaintance at Bath among appalling old gentlemen withthin legs and nankeen trousers, and is of high standing in thatdreary city. But she is a little dreaded elsewhere in consequence ofan indiscreet profusion in the article of rouge and persistency in anobsolete pearl necklace like a rosary of little bird's-eggs.
In any country in a wholesome state, Volumnia would be a clear casefor the pension list. Efforts have been made to get her on it, andwhen William Buffy came in, it was fully expected that her name wouldbe put down for a couple of hundred a year. But William Buffy somehowdiscovered, contrary to all expectation, that these were not thetimes when it could be done, and this was the first clear indicationSir Leicester Dedlock had conveyed to him that the country was goingto pieces.
There is likewise the Honourable Bob Stables, who can make warmmashes with the skill of a veterinary surgeon and is a better shotthan most gamekeepers. He has been for some time particularlydesirous to serve his country in a post of good emoluments,unaccompanied by any trouble or responsibility. In a well-regulatedbody politic this natural desire on the part of a spirited younggentleman so highly connected would be speedily recognized, butsomehow William Buffy found when he came in that these were not timesin which he could manage that little matter either, and this was thesecond indication Sir Leicester Dedlock had conveyed to him that thecountry was going to pieces.
The rest of the cousins are ladies and gentlemen of various ages andcapacities, the major part amiable and sensible and likely to havedone well enough in life if they could have overcome theircousinship; as it is, they are almost all a little worsted by it, andlounge in purposeless and listless paths, and seem to be quite asmuch at a loss how to dispose of themselves as anybody else can behow to dispose of them.
In this society, and where not, my Lady Dedlock reigns supreme.Beautiful, elegant, accomplished, and powerful in her little world(for the world of fashion does not stretch ALL the way from pole topole), her influence in Sir Leicester's house, however haughty andindifferent her manner, is greatly to improve it and refine it. Thecousins, even those older cousins who were paralysed when SirLeicester married her, do her feudal homage; and the Honourable BobStables daily repeats to some chosen person between breakfast andlunch his favourite original remark, that she is the best-groomedwoman in the whole stud.
Such the guests in the long drawing-room at Chesney Wold this dismalnight when the step on the Ghost's Walk (inaudible here, however)might be the step of a deceased cousin shut out in the cold. It isnear bed-time. Bedroom fires blaze brightly all over the house,raising ghosts of grim furniture on wall and ceiling. Bedroomcandlesticks bristle on the distant table by the door, and cousinsyawn on ottomans. Cousins at the piano, cousins at the soda-watertray, cousins rising from the card-table, cousins gathered round thefire. Standing on one side of his own peculiar fire (for there aretwo), Sir Leicester. On the opposite side of the broad hearth, myLady at her table. Volumnia, as one of the more privileged cousins,in a luxurious chair between them. Sir Leicester glancing, withmagnificent displeasure, at the rouge and the pearl necklace.
"I occasionally meet on my staircase here," drawls Volumnia, whosethoughts perhaps are already hopping up it to bed, after a longevening of very desultory talk, "one of the prettiest girls, I think,that I ever saw in my life."
"A PROTEGEE of my Lady's," observes Sir Leicester.
"I thought so. I felt sure that some uncommon eye must have pickedthat girl out. She really is a marvel. A dolly sort of beautyperhaps," says Miss Volumnia, reserving her own sort, "but in itsway, perfect; such bloom I never saw!"
Sir Leicester, with his magnificent glance of displeasure at therouge, appears to say so too.
"Indeed," remarks my Lady languidly, "if there is any uncommon eye inthe case, it is Mrs. Rouncewell's, and not mine. Rosa is herdiscovery."
"Your maid, I suppose?"
"No. My anything; pet--secretary--messenger--I don't know what."
"You like to have her about you, as you would like to have a flower,or a bird, or a picture, or a poodle--no, not a poodle, though--oranything else that was equally pretty?" says Volumnia, sympathizing."Yes, how charming now! And how well that delightful old soul Mrs.Rouncewell is looking. She must be an immense age, and yet she is asactive and handsome! She is the dearest friend I have, positively!"
Sir Leicester feels it to be right and fitting that the housekeeperof Chesney Wold should be a remarkable person. Apart from that, hehas a real regard for Mrs. Rouncewell and likes to hear her praised.So he says, "You are right, Volumnia," which Volumnia is extremelyglad to hear.
"She has no daughter of her own, has she?"
"Mrs. Rouncewell? No, Volumnia. She has a son. Indeed, she had two."
My Lady, whose chronic malady of boredom has been sadly aggravated byVolumnia this evening, glances wearily towards the candlesticks andheaves a noiseless sigh.
"And it is a remarkable example of the confusion into which thepresent age has fallen; of the obliteration of landmarks, the openingof floodgates, and the uprooting of distinctions," says Sir Leicesterwith stately gloom, "that I have been informed by Mr. Tulkinghornthat Mrs. Rouncewell's son has been invited to go into Parliament."
Miss Volumnia utters a little sharp scream.
"Yes, indeed," repeats Sir Leicester. "Into Parliament."
"I never heard of such a thing! Good gracious, what is the man?"exclaims Volumnia.
"He is called, I believe--an--ironmaster." Sir Leicester says itslowly and with gravity and doubt, as not being sure but that he iscalled a lead-mistress or that the right word may be some other wordexpressive of some other relationship to some other metal.
Volumnia utters another little scream.
"He has declined the proposal, if my information from Mr. Tulkinghornbe correct, as I have no doubt it is. Mr. Tulkinghorn being alwayscorrect and exact; still that does not," says Sir Leicester, "thatdoes not lessen the anomaly, which is fraught with strangeconsiderations--startling considerations, as it appears to me."
Miss Volumnia rising with a look candlestick-wards, Sir Leicesterpolitely performs the grand tour of the drawing-room, brings one, andlights it at my Lady's shaded lamp.
"I must beg you, my Lady," he says while doing so, "to remain a fewmoments, for this individual of whom I speak arrived this eveningshortly before dinner and requested in a very becoming note"--SirLeicester, with his habitual regard to truth, dwells upon it--"I ambound to say, in a very becoming and well-expressed note, the favourof a short interview with yourself and MYself on the subject of thisyoung girl. As it appeared that he wished to depart to-night, Ireplied that we would see him before retiring."
Miss Volumnia with a third little scream takes flight, wishing herhosts--O Lud!--well rid of the--what is it?--ironmaster!
The other cousins soon disperse, to the last cousin there. SirLeicester rings the bell, "Make my compliments to Mr. Rouncewell, inthe housekeeper's apartments, and say I can receive him now."
My Lady, who has heard all this with slight attention outwardly,looks towards Mr. Rouncewell as he comes in. He is a little overfifty perhaps, of a good figure, like his mother, and has a clearvoice, a broad forehead from which his dark hair has retired, and ashrewd though open face. He is a responsible-looking gentlemandressed in black, portly enough, but strong and active. Has aperfectly natural and easy air and is not in the least embarrassed bythe great presence into which he comes.
"Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, as I have already apologized forintruding on you, I cannot do better than be very brief. I thank you,Sir Leicester."
The head of the Dedlocks has motioned towards a sofa between himselfand my Lady. Mr. Rouncewell quietly takes his seat there.
"In these busy times, when so many great undertakings are inprogress, people like myself have so many workmen in so many placesthat we are always on the flight."
Sir Leicester is content enough that the ironmaster should feel thatthere is no hurry there; there, in that ancient house, rooted in thatquiet park, where the ivy and the moss have had time to mature, andthe gnarled and warted elms and the umbrageous oaks stand deep in thefern and leaves of a hundred years; and where the sun-dial on theterrace has dumbly recorded for centuries that time which was as muchthe property of every Dedlock--while he lasted--as the house andlands. Sir Leicester sits down in an easy-chair, opposing his reposeand that of Chesney Wold to the restless flights of ironmasters.
"Lady Dedlock has been so kind," proceeds Mr. Rouncewell with arespectful glance and a bow that way, "as to place near her a youngbeauty of the name of Rosa. Now, my son has fallen in love with Rosaand has asked my consent to his proposing marriage to her and totheir becoming engaged if she will take him--which I suppose shewill. I have never seen Rosa until to-day, but I have some confidencein my son's good sense--even in love. I find her what he representsher, to the best of my judgment; and my mother speaks of her withgreat commendation."
"She in all respects deserves it," says my Lady.
"I am happy, Lady Dedlock, that you say so, and I need not comment onthe value to me of your kind opinion of her."
"That," observes Sir Leicester with unspeakable grandeur, for hethinks the ironmaster a little too glib, "must be quite unnecessary."
"Quite unnecessary, Sir Leicester. Now, my son is a very young man,and Rosa is a very young woman. As I made my way, so my son must makehis; and his being married at present is out of the question. Butsupposing I gave my consent to his engaging himself to this prettygirl, if this pretty girl will engage herself to him, I think it apiece of candour to say at once--I am sure, Sir Leicester and LadyDedlock, you will understand and excuse me--I should make it acondition that she did not remain at Chesney Wold. Therefore, beforecommunicating further with my son, I take the liberty of saying thatif her removal would be in any way inconvenient or objectionable, Iwill hold the matter over with him for any reasonable time and leaveit precisely where it is."
Not remain at Chesney Wold! Make it a condition! All Sir Leicester'sold misgivings relative to Wat Tyler and the people in the irondistricts who do nothing but turn out by torchlight come in a showerupon his head, the fine grey hair of which, as well as of hiswhiskers, actually stirs with indignation.
"Am I to understand, sir," says Sir Leicester, "and is my Lady tounderstand"--he brings her in thus specially, first as a point ofgallantry, and next as a point of prudence, having great reliance onher sense--"am I to understand, Mr. Rouncewell, and is my Lady tounderstand, sir, that you consider this young woman too good forChesney Wold or likely to be injured by remaining here?"
"Certainly not, Sir Leicester,"
"I am glad to hear it." Sir Leicester very lofty indeed.
"Pray, Mr. Rouncewell," says my Lady, warning Sir Leicester off withthe slightest gesture of her pretty hand, as if he were a fly,"explain to me what you mean."
"Willingly, Lady Dedlock. There is nothing I could desire more."
Addressing her composed face, whose intelligence, however, is tooquick and active to be concealed by any studied impassiveness,however habitual, to the strong Saxon face of the visitor, a pictureof resolution and perseverance, my Lady listens with attention,occasionally slightly bending her head.
"I am the son of your housekeeper, Lady Dedlock, and passed mychildhood about this house. My mother has lived here half acentury and will die here I have no doubt. She is one of thoseexamples--perhaps as good a one as there is--of love, and attachment,and fidelity in such a nation, which England may well be proud of,but of which no order can appropriate the whole pride or the wholemerit, because such an instance bespeaks high worth on two sides--onthe great side assuredly, on the small one no less assuredly."
Sir Leicester snorts a little to hear the law laid down in this way,but in his honour and his love of truth, he freely, though silently,admits the justice of the ironmaster's proposition.
"Pardon me for saying what is so obvious, but I wouldn't have ithastily supposed," with the least turn of his eyes towards SirLeicester, "that I am ashamed of my mother's position here, orwanting in all just respect for Chesney Wold and the family.I certainly may have desired--I certainly have desired, LadyDedlock--that my mother should retire after so many years and endher days with me. But as I have found that to sever this strong bondwould be to break her heart, I have long abandoned that idea."
Sir Leicester very magnificent again at the notion of Mrs. Rouncewellbeing spirited off from her natural home to end her days with anironmaster.
"I have been," proceeds the visitor in a modest, clear way, "anapprentice and a workman. I have lived on workman's wages, years andyears, and beyond a certain point have had to educate myself. My wifewas a foreman's daughter, and plainly brought up. We have threedaughters besides this son of whom I have spoken, and beingfortunately able to give them greater advantages than we have hadourselves, we have educated them well, very well. It has been one ofour great cares and pleasures to make them worthy of any station."
A little boastfulness in his fatherly tone here, as if he added inhis heart, "even of the Chesney Wold station." Not a little moremagnificence, therefore, on the part of Sir Leicester.
"All this is so frequent, Lady Dedlock, where I live, and among theclass to which I belong, that what would be generally called unequalmarriages are not of such rare occurrence with us as elsewhere. A sonwill sometimes make it known to his father that he has fallen inlove, say, with a young woman in the factory. The father, who onceworked in a factory himself, will be a little disappointed at firstvery possibly. It may be that he had other views for his son.However, the chances are that having ascertained the young woman tobe of unblemished character, he will say to his son, 'I must be quitesure you are in earnest here. This is a serious matter for both ofyou. Therefore I shall have this girl educated for two years,' or itmay be, 'I shall place this girl at the same school with your sistersfor such a time, during which you will give me your word and honourto see her only so often. If at the expiration of that time, when shehas so far profited by her advantages as that you may be upon a fairequality, you are both in the same mind, I will do my part to makeyou happy.' I know of several cases such as I describe, my Lady, andI think they indicate to me my own course now."
Sir Leicester's magnificence explodes. Calmly, but terribly.
"Mr. Rouncewell," says Sir Leicester with his right hand in thebreast of his blue coat, the attitude of state in which he is paintedin the gallery, "do you draw a parallel between Chesney Wold and a--"Here he resists a disposition to choke, "a factory?"
"I need not reply, Sir Leicester, that the two places are verydifferent; but for the purposes of this case, I think a parallel maybe justly drawn between them."
Sir Leicester directs his majestic glance down one side of the longdrawing-room and up the other before he can believe that he is awake.
"Are you aware, sir, that this young woman whom my Lady--my Lady--hasplaced near her person was brought up at the village school outsidethe gates?"
"Sir Leicester, I am quite aware of it. A very good school it is, andhandsomely supported by this family."
"Then, Mr. Rouncewell," returns Sir Leicester, "the application ofwhat you have said is, to me, incomprehensible."
"Will it be more comprehensible, Sir Leicester, if I say," theironmaster is reddening a little, "that I do not regard the villageschool as teaching everything desirable to be known by my son'swife?"
From the village school of Chesney Wold, intact as it is this minute,to the whole framework of society; from the whole framework ofsociety, to the aforesaid framework receiving tremendous cracks inconsequence of people (iron-masters, lead-mistresses, and what not)not minding their catechism, and getting out of the station untowhich they are called--necessarily and for ever, according to SirLeicester's rapid logic, the first station in which they happen tofind themselves; and from that, to their educating other people outof THEIR stations, and so obliterating the landmarks, and opening thefloodgates, and all the rest of it; this is the swift progress of theDedlock mind.
"My Lady, I beg your pardon. Permit me, for one moment!" She hasgiven a faint indication of intending to speak. "Mr. Rouncewell, ourviews of duty, and our views of station, and our views of education,and our views of--in short, ALL our views--are so diametricallyopposed, that to prolong this discussion must be repellent to yourfeelings and repellent to my own. This young woman is honoured withmy Lady's notice and favour. If she wishes to withdraw herself fromthat notice and favour or if she chooses to place herself under theinfluence of any one who may in his peculiar opinions--you will allowme to say, in his peculiar opinions, though I readily admit that heis not accountable for them to me--who may, in his peculiar opinions,withdraw her from that notice and favour, she is at any time atliberty to do so. We are obliged to you for the plainness with whichyou have spoken. It will have no effect of itself, one way or other,on the young woman's position here. Beyond this, we can make noterms; and here we beg--if you will be so good--to leave thesubject."
The visitor pauses a moment to give my Lady an opportunity, but shesays nothing. He then rises and replies, "Sir Leicester and LadyDedlock, allow me to thank you for your attention and only to observethat I shall very seriously recommend my son to conquer his presentinclinations. Good night!"
"Mr. Rouncewell," says Sir Leicester with all the nature of agentleman shining in him, "it is late, and the roads are dark. I hopeyour time is not so precious but that you will allow my Lady andmyself to offer you the hospitality of Chesney Wold, for to-night atleast."
"I hope so," adds my Lady.
"I am much obliged to you, but I have to travel all night in order toreach a distant part of the country punctually at an appointed timein the morning."
Therewith the ironmaster takes his departure, Sir Leicester ringingthe bell and my Lady rising as he leaves the room.
When my Lady goes to her boudoir, she sits down thoughtfully by thefire, and inattentive to the Ghost's Walk, looks at Rosa, writing inan inner room. Presently my Lady calls her.
"Come to me, child. Tell me the truth. Are you in love?"
"Oh! My Lady!"
My Lady, looking at the downcast and blushing face, says smiling,"Who is it? Is it Mrs. Rouncewell's grandson?"
"Yes, if you please, my Lady. But I don't know that I am in love withhim--yet."
"Yet, you silly little thing! Do you know that he loves YOU, yet?"
"I think he likes me a little, my Lady." And Rosa bursts into tears.
Is this Lady Dedlock standing beside the village beauty, smoothingher dark hair with that motherly touch, and watching her with eyes sofull of musing interest? Aye, indeed it is!
"Listen to me, child. You are young and true, and I believe you areattached to me."
"Indeed I am, my Lady. Indeed there is nothing in the world Iwouldn't do to show how much."
"And I don't think you would wish to leave me just yet, Rosa, evenfor a lover?"
"No, my Lady! Oh, no!" Rosa looks up for the first time, quitefrightened at the thought.
"Confide in me, my child. Don't fear me. I wish you to be happy, andwill make you so--if I can make anybody happy on this earth."
Rosa, with fresh tears, kneels at her feet and kisses her hand. MyLady takes the hand with which she has caught it, and standing withher eyes fixed on the fire, puts it about and about between her owntwo hands, and gradually lets it fall. Seeing her so absorbed, Rosasoftly withdraws; but still my Lady's eyes are on the fire.
In search of what? Of any hand that is no more, of any hand thatnever was, of any touch that might have magically changed her life?Or does she listen to the Ghost's Walk and think what step does itmost resemble? A man's? A woman's? The pattering of a little child'sfeet, ever coming on--on--on? Some melancholy influence is upon her,or why should so proud a lady close the doors and sit alone upon thehearth so desolate?
Volumnia is away next day, and all the cousins are scattered beforedinner. Not a cousin of the batch but is amazed to hear from SirLeicester at breakfast-time of the obliteration of landmarks, andopening of floodgates, and cracking of the framework of society,manifested through Mrs. Rouncewell's son. Not a cousin of the batchbut is really indignant, and connects it with the feebleness ofWilliam Buffy when in office, and really does feel deprived of astake in the country--or the pension list--or something--by fraud andwrong. As to Volumnia, she is handed down the great staircase by SirLeicester, as eloquent upon the theme as if there were a generalrising in the north of England to obtain her rouge-pot and pearlnecklace. And thus, with a clatter of maids and valets--for it is oneappurtenance of their cousinship that however difficult they may findit to keep themselves, they MUST keep maids and valets--the cousinsdisperse to the four winds of heaven; and the one wintry wind thatblows to-day shakes a shower from the trees near the deserted house,as if all the cousins had been changed into leaves.



CHAPTER XXIX
The Young Man

Chesney Wold is shut up, carpets are rolled into great scrolls incorners of comfortless rooms, bright damask does penance in brownholland, carving and gilding puts on mortification, and the Dedlockancestors retire from the light of day again. Around and around thehouse the leaves fall thick, but never fast, for they come circlingdown with a dead lightness that is sombre and slow. Let the gardenersweep and sweep the turf as he will, and press the leaves into fullbarrows, and wheel them off, still they lie ankle-deep. Howls theshrill wind round Chesney Wold; the sharp rain beats, the windowsrattle, and the chimneys growl. Mists hide in the avenues, veil thepoints of view, and move in funeral-wise across the rising grounds.On all the house there is a cold, blank smell like the smell of alittle church, though something dryer, suggesting that the dead andburied Dedlocks walk there in the long nights and leave the flavourof their graves behind them.
But the house in town, which is rarely in the same mind as ChesneyWold at the same time, seldom rejoicing when it rejoices or mourningwhen it mourns, excepting when a Dedlock dies--the house in townshines out awakened. As warm and bright as so much state may be, asdelicately redolent of pleasant scents that bear no trace of winteras hothouse flowers can make it, soft and hushed so that the tickingof the clocks and the crisp burning of the fires alone disturb thestillness in the rooms, it seems to wrap those chilled bones of SirLeicester's in rainbow-coloured wool. And Sir Leicester is glad torepose in dignified contentment before the great fire in the library,condescendingly perusing the backs of his books or honouring the finearts with a glance of approbation. For he has his pictures, ancientand modern. Some of the Fancy Ball School in which art occasionallycondescends to become a master, which would be best catalogued likethe miscellaneous articles in a sale. As "Three high-backed chairs, atable and cover, long-necked bottle (containing wine), one flask, oneSpanish female's costume, three-quarter face portrait of Miss Joggthe model, and a suit of armour containing Don Quixote." Or "Onestone terrace (cracked), one gondola in distance, one Venetiansenator's dress complete, richly embroidered white satin costume withprofile portrait of Miss Jogg the model, one Scimitar superblymounted in gold with jewelled handle, elaborate Moorish dress (veryrare), and Othello."
Mr. Tulkinghorn comes and goes pretty often, there being estatebusiness to do, leases to be renewed, and so on. He sees my Ladypretty often, too; and he and she are as composed, and asindifferent, and take as little heed of one another, as ever. Yet itmay be that my Lady fears this Mr. Tulkinghorn and that he knows it.It may be that he pursues her doggedly and steadily, with no touch ofcompunction, remorse, or pity. It may be that her beauty and all thestate and brilliancy surrounding her only gives him the greater zestfor what he is set upon and makes him the more inflexible in it.Whether he be cold and cruel, whether immovable in what he has madehis duty, whether absorbed in love of power, whether determinedto have nothing hidden from him in ground where he has burrowedamong secrets all his life, whether he in his heart despises thesplendour of which he is a distant beam, whether he is alwaystreasuring up slights and offences in the affability of his gorgeousclients--whether he be any of this, or all of this, it may be that myLady had better have five thousand pairs of fashionable eyes uponher, in distrustful vigilance, than the two eyes of this rusty lawyerwith his wisp of neckcloth and his dull black breeches tied withribbons at the knees.
Sir Leicester sits in my Lady's room--that room in which Mr.Tulkinghorn read the affidavit in Jarndyce and Jarndyce--particularlycomplacent. My Lady, as on that day, sits before the fire with herscreen in her hand. Sir Leicester is particularly complacent becausehe has found in his newspaper some congenial remarks bearing directlyon the floodgates and the framework of society. They apply so happilyto the late case that Sir Leicester has come from the library to myLady's room expressly to read them aloud. "The man who wrote thisarticle," he observes by way of preface, nodding at the fire as if hewere nodding down at the man from a mount, "has a well-balancedmind."
The man's mind is not so well balanced but that he bores my Lady,who, after a languid effort to listen, or rather a languidresignation of herself to a show of listening, becomes distraught andfalls into a contemplation of the fire as if it were her fire atChesney Wold, and she had never left it. Sir Leicester, quiteunconscious, reads on through his double eye-glass, occasionallystopping to remove his glass and express approval, as "Very trueindeed," "Very properly put," "I have frequently made the same remarkmyself," invariably losing his place after each observation, andgoing up and down the column to find it again.
Sir Leicester is reading with infinite gravity and state when thedoor opens, and the Mercury in powder makes this strangeannouncement, "The young man, my Lady, of the name of Guppy."
Sir Leicester pauses, stares, repeats in a killing voice, "The youngman of the name of Guppy?"
Looking round, he beholds the young man of the name of Guppy, muchdiscomfited and not presenting a very impressive letter ofintroduction in his manner and appearance.
"Pray," says Sir Leicester to Mercury, "what do you mean byannouncing with this abruptness a young man of the name of Guppy?"
"I beg your pardon, Sir Leicester, but my Lady said she would see theyoung man whenever he called. I was not aware that you were here, SirLeicester."
With this apology, Mercury directs a scornful and indignant look atthe young man of the name of Guppy which plainly says, "What do youcome calling here for and getting ME into a row?"
"It's quite right. I gave him those directions," says my Lady. "Letthe young man wait."
"By no means, my Lady. Since he has your orders to come, I will notinterrupt you." Sir Leicester in his gallantry retires, ratherdeclining to accept a bow from the young man as he goes out andmajestically supposing him to be some shoemaker of intrusiveappearance.
Lady Dedlock looks imperiously at her visitor when the servant hasleft the room, casting her eyes over him from head to foot. Shesuffers him to stand by the door and asks him what he wants.
"That your ladyship would have the kindness to oblige me with alittle conversation," returns Mr. Guppy, embarrassed.
"You are, of course, the person who has written me so many letters?"
"Several, your ladyship. Several before your ladyship condescended tofavour me with an answer."
"And could you not take the same means of rendering a Conversationunnecessary? Can you not still?"
Mr. Guppy screws his mouth into a silent "No!" and shakes his head.
"You have been strangely importunate. If it should appear, after all,that what you have to say does not concern me--and I don't know howit can, and don't expect that it will--you will allow me to cut youshort with but little ceremony. Say what you have to say, if youplease."
My Lady, with a careless toss of her screen, turns herself towardsthe fire again, sitting almost with her back to the young man of thename of Guppy.
"With your ladyship's permission, then," says the young man, "I willnow enter on my business. Hem! I am, as I told your ladyship in myfirst letter, in the law. Being in the law, I have learnt the habitof not committing myself in writing, and therefore I did not mentionto your ladyship the name of the firm with which I am connected andin which my standing--and I may add income--is tolerably good. I maynow state to your ladyship, in confidence, that the name of that firmis Kenge and Carboy, of Lincoln's Inn, which may not be altogetherunknown to your ladyship in connexion with the case in Chancery ofJarndyce and Jarndyce."
My Lady's figure begins to be expressive of some attention. She hasceased to toss the screen and holds it as if she were listening.
"Now, I may say to your ladyship at once," says Mr. Guppy, a littleemboldened, "it is no matter arising out of Jarndyce and Jarndycethat made me so desirous to speak to your ladyship, which conduct Ihave no doubt did appear, and does appear, obtrusive--in fact, almostblackguardly."
After waiting for a moment to receive some assurance to the contrary,and not receiving any, Mr. Guppy proceeds, "If it had been Jarndyceand Jarndyce, I should have gone at once to your ladyship'ssolicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn, of the Fields. I have the pleasure ofbeing acquainted with Mr. Tulkinghorn--at least we move when we meetone another--and if it had been any business of that sort, I shouldhave gone to him."
My Lady turns a little round and says, "You had better sit down."
"Thank your ladyship." Mr. Guppy does so. "Now, your ladyship"--Mr.Guppy refers to a little slip of paper on which he has made smallnotes of his line of argument and which seems to involve him in thedensest obscurity whenever he looks at it--"I--Oh, yes!--I placemyself entirely in your ladyship's hands. If your ladyship was tomake any complaint to Kenge and Carboy or to Mr. Tulkinghorn of thepresent visit, I should be placed in a very disagreeable situation.That, I openly admit. Consequently, I rely upon your ladyship'shonour."
My Lady, with a disdainful gesture of the hand that holds the screen,assures him of his being worth no complaint from her.
"Thank your ladyship," says Mr. Guppy; "quite satisfactory.Now--I--dash it!--The fact is that I put down a head or two here ofthe order of the points I thought of touching upon, and they'rewritten short, and I can't quite make out what they mean. If yourladyship will excuse me taking it to the window half a moment, I--"
Mr. Guppy, going to the window, tumbles into a pair of love-birds, towhom he says in his confusion, "I beg your pardon, I am sure." Thisdoes not tend to the greater legibility of his notes. He murmurs,growing warm and red and holding the slip of paper now close to hiseyes, now a long way off, "C.S. What's C.S. for? Oh! C.S.! Oh, Iknow! Yes, to be sure!" And comes back enlightened.
"I am not aware," says Mr. Guppy, standing midway between my Lady andhis chair, "whether your ladyship ever happened to hear of, or tosee, a young lady of the name of Miss Esther Summerson."
My Lady's eyes look at him full. "I saw a young lady of that name notlong ago. This past autumn."
"Now, did it strike your ladyship that she was like anybody?" asksMr. Guppy, crossing his arms, holding his head on one side, andscratching the corner of his mouth with his memoranda.
My Lady removes her eyes from him no more.
"No."
"Not like your ladyship's family?"
"No."
"I think your ladyship," says Mr. Guppy, "can hardly remember MissSummerson's face?"
"I remember the young lady very well. What has this to do with me?"
"Your ladyship, I do assure you that having Miss Summerson's imageimprinted on my 'eart--which I mention in confidence--I found, when Ihad the honour of going over your ladyship's mansion of Chesney Woldwhile on a short out in the county of Lincolnshire with a friend,such a resemblance between Miss Esther Summerson and your ladyship'sown portrait that it completely knocked me over, so much so that Ididn't at the moment even know what it WAS that knocked me over. Andnow I have the honour of beholding your ladyship near (I have often,since that, taken the liberty of looking at your ladyship in yourcarriage in the park, when I dare say you was not aware of me, but Inever saw your ladyship so near), it's really more surprising than Ithought it."
Young man of the name of Guppy! There have been times, when ladieslived in strongholds and had unscrupulous attendants within call,when that poor life of yours would NOT have been worth a minute'spurchase, with those beautiful eyes looking at you as they look atthis moment.
My Lady, slowly using her little hand-screen as a fan, asks him againwhat he supposes that his taste for likenesses has to do with her.
"Your ladyship," replies Mr. Guppy, again referring to his paper, "Iam coming to that. Dash these notes! Oh! 'Mrs. Chadband.' Yes." Mr.Guppy draws his chair a little forward and seats himself again. MyLady reclines in her chair composedly, though with a trifle less ofgraceful ease than usual perhaps, and never falters in her steadygaze. "A--stop a minute, though!" Mr. Guppy refers again. "E.S.twice? Oh, yes! Yes, I see my way now, right on."
Rolling up the slip of paper as an instrument to point his speechwith, Mr. Guppy proceeds.
"Your ladyship, there is a mystery about Miss Esther Summerson'sbirth and bringing up. I am informed of that fact because--which Imention in confidence--I know it in the way of my profession at Kengeand Carboy's. Now, as I have already mentioned to your ladyship, MissSummerson's image is imprinted on my 'eart. If I could clear thismystery for her, or prove her to be well related, or find that havingthe honour to be a remote branch of your ladyship's family she had aright to be made a party in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, why, I might makea sort of a claim upon Miss Summerson to look with an eye of morededicated favour on my proposals than she has exactly done as yet. Infact, as yet she hasn't favoured them at all."
A kind of angry smile just dawns upon my Lady's face.
"Now, it's a very singular circumstance, your ladyship," says Mr.Guppy, "though one of those circumstances that do fall in the way ofus professional men--which I may call myself, for though notadmitted, yet I have had a present of my articles made to me by Kengeand Carboy, on my mother's advancing from the principal of her littleincome the money for the stamp, which comes heavy--that I haveencountered the person who lived as servant with the lady who broughtMiss Summerson up before Mr. Jarndyce took charge of her. That ladywas a Miss Barbary, your ladyship."
Is the dead colour on my Lady's face reflected from the screen whichhas a green silk ground and which she holds in her raised hand as ifshe had forgotten it, or is it a dreadful paleness that has fallen onher?
"Did your ladyship," says Mr. Guppy, "ever happen to hear of MissBarbary?"
"I don't know. I think so. Yes."
"Was Miss Barbary at all connected with your ladyship's family?"
My Lady's lips move, but they utter nothing. She shakes her head.
"NOT connected?" says Mr. Guppy. "Oh! Not to your ladyship'sknowledge, perhaps? Ah! But might be? Yes." After each of theseinterrogatories, she has inclined her head. "Very good! Now, thisMiss Barbary was extremely close--seems to have been extraordinarilyclose for a female, females being generally (in common life at least)rather given to conversation--and my witness never had an ideawhether she possessed a single relative. On one occasion, and onlyone, she seems to have been confidential to my witness on a singlepoint, and she then told her that the little girl's real name was notEsther Summerson, but Esther Hawdon."
"My God!"
Mr. Guppy stares. Lady Dedlock sits before him looking him through,with the same dark shade upon her face, in the same attitude even tothe holding of the screen, with her lips a little apart, her brow alittle contracted, but for the moment dead. He sees her consciousnessreturn, sees a tremor pass across her frame like a ripple over water,sees her lips shake, sees her compose them by a great effort, seesher force herself back to the knowledge of his presence and of whathe has said. All this, so quickly, that her exclamation and her deadcondition seem to have passed away like the features of thoselong-preserved dead bodies sometimes opened up in tombs, which,struck by the air like lightning, vanish in a breath.
"Your ladyship is acquainted with the name of Hawdon?"
"I have heard it before."
"Name of any collateral or remote branch of your ladyship's family?"
"No."
"Now, your ladyship," says Mr. Guppy, "I come to the last point ofthe case, so far as I have got it up. It's going on, and I shallgather it up closer and closer as it goes on. Your ladyship mustknow--if your ladyship don't happen, by any chance, to knowalready--that there was found dead at the house of a person namedKrook, near Chancery Lane, some time ago, a law-writer in greatdistress. Upon which law-writer there was an inquest, and whichlaw-writer was an anonymous character, his name being unknown. But,your ladyship, I have discovered very lately that that law-writer'sname was Hawdon."
"And what is THAT to me?"
"Aye, your ladyship, that's the question! Now, your ladyship, a queerthing happened after that man's death. A lady started up, a disguisedlady, your ladyship, who went to look at the scene of action and wentto look at his grave. She hired a crossing-sweeping boy to show ither. If your ladyship would wish to have the boy produced incorroboration of this statement, I can lay my hand upon him at anytime."
The wretched boy is nothing to my Lady, and she does NOT wish to havehim produced.
"Oh, I assure your ladyship it's a very queer start indeed," says Mr.Guppy. "If you was to hear him tell about the rings that sparkled onher fingers when she took her glove off, you'd think it quiteromantic."
There are diamonds glittering on the hand that holds the screen. MyLady trifles with the screen and makes them glitter more, again withthat expression which in other times might have been so dangerous tothe young man of the name of Guppy.
"It was supposed, your ladyship, that he left no rag or scrap behindhim by which he could be possibly identified. But he did. He left abundle of old letters."
The screen still goes, as before. All this time her eyes never oncerelease him.
"They were taken and secreted. And to-morrow night, your ladyship,they will come into my possession."
"Still I ask you, what is this to me?"
"Your ladyship, I conclude with that." Mr. Guppy rises. "If you thinkthere's enough in this chain of circumstances put together--in theundoubted strong likeness of this young lady to your ladyship, whichis a positive fact for a jury; in her having been brought up by MissBarbary; in Miss Barbary stating Miss Summerson's real name to beHawdon; in your ladyship's knowing both these names VERY WELL; and inHawdon's dying as he did--to give your ladyship a family interest ingoing further into the case, I will bring these papers here. I don'tknow what they are, except that they are old letters: I have neverhad them in my possession yet. I will bring those papers here as soonas I get them and go over them for the first time with your ladyship.I have told your ladyship my object. I have told your ladyship that Ishould be placed in a very disagreeable situation if any complaintwas made, and all is in strict confidence."
Is this the full purpose of the young man of the name of Guppy, orhas he any other? Do his words disclose the length, breadth, depth,of his object and suspicion in coming here; or if not, what do theyhide? He is a match for my Lady there. She may look at him, but hecan look at the table and keep that witness-box face of his fromtelling anything.
"You may bring the letters," says my Lady, "if you choose."
"Your ladyship is not very encouraging, upon my word and honour,"says Mr. Guppy, a little injured.
"You may bring the letters," she repeats in the same tone, "ifyou--please."
"It shall be done. I wish your ladyship good day."
On a table near her is a rich bauble of a casket, barred and claspedlike an old strong-chest. She, looking at him still, takes it to herand unlocks it.
"Oh! I assure your ladyship I am not actuated by any motives of thatsort," says Mr. Guppy, "and I couldn't accept anything of the kind. Iwish your ladyship good day, and am much obliged to you all thesame."
So the young man makes his bow and goes downstairs, where thesupercilious Mercury does not consider himself called upon to leavehis Olympus by the hall-fire to let the young man out.
As Sir Leicester basks in his library and dozes over his newspaper,is there no influence in the house to startle him, not to say to makethe very trees at Chesney Wold fling up their knotted arms, the veryportraits frown, the very armour stir?
No. Words, sobs, and cries are but air, and air is so shut in andshut out throughout the house in town that sounds need be utteredtrumpet-tongued indeed by my Lady in her chamber to carry any faintvibration to Sir Leicester's ears; and yet this cry is in the house,going upward from a wild figure on its knees.
"O my child, my child! Not dead in the first hours of her life, as mycruel sister told me, but sternly nurtured by her, after she hadrenounced me and my name! O my child, O my child!"



CHAPTER XXX
Esther's Narrative

Richard had been gone away some time when a visitor came to pass afew days with us. It was an elderly lady. It was Mrs. Woodcourt, who,having come from Wales to stay with Mrs. Bayham Badger and havingwritten to my guardian, "by her son Allan's desire," to report thatshe had heard from him and that he was well "and sent his kindremembrances to all of us," had been invited by my guardian to make avisit to Bleak House. She stayed with us nearly three weeks. She tookvery kindly to me and was extremely confidential, so much so thatsometimes she almost made me uncomfortable. I had no right, I knewvery well, to be uncomfortable because she confided in me, and I feltit was unreasonable; still, with all I could do, I could not quitehelp it.
She was such a sharp little lady and used to sit with her handsfolded in each other looking so very watchful while she talked to methat perhaps I found that rather irksome. Or perhaps it was her beingso upright and trim, though I don't think it was that, because Ithought that quaintly pleasant. Nor can it have been the generalexpression of her face, which was very sparkling and pretty for anold lady. I don't know what it was. Or at least if I do now, Ithought I did not then. Or at least--but it don't matter.
Of a night when I was going upstairs to bed, she would invite meinto her room, where she sat before the fire in a great chair;and, dear me, she would tell me about Morgan ap-Kerrig until Iwas quite low-spirited! Sometimes she recited a few verses fromCrumlinwallinwer and the Mewlinnwillinwodd (if those are the rightnames, which I dare say they are not), and would become quite fierywith the sentiments they expressed. Though I never knew what theywere (being in Welsh), further than that they were highly eulogisticof the lineage of Morgan ap-Kerrig.
"So, Miss Summerson," she would say to me with stately triumph,"this, you see, is the fortune inherited by my son. Wherever my songoes, he can claim kindred with Ap-Kerrig. He may not have money, buthe always has what is much better--family, my dear."
I had my doubts of their caring so very much for Morgan ap-Kerrig inIndia and China, but of course I never expressed them. I used to sayit was a great thing to be so highly connected.
"It IS, my dear, a great thing," Mrs. Woodcourt would reply. "It hasits disadvantages; my son's choice of a wife, for instance, islimited by it, but the matrimonial choice of the royal family islimited in much the same manner."
Then she would pat me on the arm and smooth my dress, as much as toassure me that she had a good opinion of me, the distance between usnotwithstanding.
"Poor Mr. Woodcourt, my dear," she would say, and always with someemotion, for with her lofty pedigree she had a very affectionateheart, "was descended from a great Highland family, the MacCoorts ofMacCoort. He served his king and country as an officer in the RoyalHighlanders, and he died on the field. My son is one of the lastrepresentatives of two old families. With the blessing of heaven hewill set them up again and unite them with another old family."
It was in vain for me to try to change the subject, as I used to try,only for the sake of novelty or perhaps because--but I need not be soparticular. Mrs. Woodcourt never would let me change it.
"My dear," she said one night, "you have so much sense and you lookat the world in a quiet manner so superior to your time of life thatit is a comfort to me to talk to you about these family matters ofmine. You don't know much of my son, my dear; but you know enough ofhim, I dare say, to recollect him?"
"Yes, ma'am. I recollect him."
"Yes, my dear. Now, my dear, I think you are a judge of character,and I should like to have your opinion of him."
"Oh, Mrs. Woodcourt," said I, "that is so difficult!"
"Why is it so difficult, my dear?" she returned. "I don't see itmyself."
"To give an opinion--"
"On so slight an acquaintance, my dear. THAT'S true."
I didn't mean that, because Mr. Woodcourt had been at our house agood deal altogether and had become quite intimate with my guardian.I said so, and added that he seemed to be very clever in hisprofession--we thought--and that his kindness and gentleness to MissFlite were above all praise.
"You do him justice!" said Mrs. Woodcourt, pressing my hand. "Youdefine him exactly. Allan is a dear fellow, and in his professionfaultless. I say it, though I am his mother. Still, I must confess heis not without faults, love."
"None of us are," said I.
"Ah! But his really are faults that he might correct, and ought tocorrect," returned the sharp old lady, sharply shaking her head. "Iam so much attached to you that I may confide in you, my dear, as athird party wholly disinterested, that he is fickleness itself."
I said I should have thought it hardly possible that he could havebeen otherwise than constant to his profession and zealous in thepursuit of it, judging from the reputation he had earned.
"You are right again, my dear," the old lady retorted, "but I don'trefer to his profession, look you."
"Oh!" said I.
"No," said she. "I refer, my dear, to his social conduct. He isalways paying trivial attentions to young ladies, and always hasbeen, ever since he was eighteen. Now, my dear, he has never reallycared for any one of them and has never meant in doing this to do anyharm or to express anything but politeness and good nature. Still,it's not right, you know; is it?"
"No," said I, as she seemed to wait for me.
"And it might lead to mistaken notions, you see, my dear."
I supposed it might.
"Therefore, I have told him many times that he really should be morecareful, both in justice to himself and in justice to others. And hehas always said, 'Mother, I will be; but you know me better thananybody else does, and you know I mean no harm--in short, meannothing.' All of which is very true, my dear, but is nojustification. However, as he is now gone so far away and for anindefinite time, and as he will have good opportunities andintroductions, we may consider this past and gone. And you, my dear,"said the old lady, who was now all nods and smiles, "regarding yourdear self, my love?"
"Me, Mrs. Woodcourt?"
"Not to be always selfish, talking of my son, who has gone to seekhis fortune and to find a wife--when do you mean to seek YOUR fortuneand to find a husband, Miss Summerson? Hey, look you! Now you blush!"
I don't think I did blush--at all events, it was not important if Idid--and I said my present fortune perfectly contented me and I hadno wish to change it.
"Shall I tell you what I always think of you and the fortune yet tocome for you, my love?" said Mrs. Woodcourt.
"If you believe you are a good prophet," said I.
"Why, then, it is that you will marry some one very rich and veryworthy, much older--five and twenty years, perhaps--than yourself.And you will be an excellent wife, and much beloved, and very happy."
"That is a good fortune," said I. "But why is it to be mine?"
"My dear," she returned, "there's suitability in it--you are so busy,and so neat, and so peculiarly situated altogether that there'ssuitability in it, and it will come to pass. And nobody, my love,will congratulate you more sincerely on such a marriage than Ishall."
It was curious that this should make me uncomfortable, but I think itdid. I know it did. It made me for some part of that nightuncomfortable. I was so ashamed of my folly that I did not like toconfess it even to Ada, and that made me more uncomfortable still. Iwould have given anything not to have been so much in the bright oldlady's confidence if I could have possibly declined it. It gave methe most inconsistent opinions of her. At one time I thought she wasa story-teller, and at another time that she was the pink of truth.Now I suspected that she was very cunning, next moment I believed herhonest Welsh heart to be perfectly innocent and simple. And afterall, what did it matter to me, and why did it matter to me? Why couldnot I, going up to bed with my basket of keys, stop to sit down byher fire and accommodate myself for a little while to her, at leastas well as to anybody else, and not trouble myself about the harmlessthings she said to me? Impelled towards her, as I certainly was, forI was very anxious that she should like me and was very glad indeedthat she did, why should I harp afterwards, with actual distress andpain, on every word she said and weigh it over and over again intwenty scales? Why was it so worrying to me to have her in our house,and confidential to me every night, when I yet felt that it wasbetter and safer somehow that she should be there than anywhere else?These were perplexities and contradictions that I could not accountfor. At least, if I could--but I shall come to all that by and by,and it is mere idleness to go on about it now.
So when Mrs. Woodcourt went away, I was sorry to lose her but wasrelieved too. And then Caddy Jellyby came down, and Caddy broughtsuch a packet of domestic news that it gave us abundant occupation.
First Caddy declared (and would at first declare nothing else) that Iwas the best adviser that ever was known. This, my pet said, was nonews at all; and this, I said, of course, was nonsense. Then Caddytold us that she was going to be married in a month and that if Adaand I would be her bridesmaids, she was the happiest girl in theworld. To be sure, this was news indeed; and I thought we nevershould have done talking about it, we had so much to say to Caddy,and Caddy had so much to say to us.
It seemed that Caddy's unfortunate papa had got over hisbankruptcy--"gone through the Gazette," was the expression Caddyused, as if it were a tunnel--with the general clemency andcommiseration of his creditors, and had got rid of his affairs insome blessed manner without succeeding in understanding them, and hadgiven up everything he possessed (which was not worth much, I shouldthink, to judge from the state of the furniture), and had satisfiedevery one concerned that he could do no more, poor man. So, he hadbeen honourably dismissed to "the office" to begin the world again.What he did at the office, I never knew; Caddy said he was a"custom-house and general agent," and the only thing I everunderstood about that business was that when he wanted money morethan usual he went to the docks to look for it, and hardly ever foundit.
As soon as her papa had tranquillized his mind by becoming this shornlamb, and they had removed to a furnished lodging in Hatton Garden(where I found the children, when I afterwards went there, cuttingthe horse hair out of the seats of the chairs and choking themselveswith it), Caddy had brought about a meeting between him and old Mr.Turveydrop; and poor Mr. Jellyby, being very humble and meek, haddeferred to Mr. Turveydrop's deportment so submissively that they hadbecome excellent friends. By degrees, old Mr. Turveydrop, thusfamiliarized with the idea of his son's marriage, had worked up hisparental feelings to the height of contemplating that event as beingnear at hand and had given his gracious consent to the young couplecommencing housekeeping at the academy in Newman Street when theywould.
"And your papa, Caddy. What did he say?"
"Oh! Poor Pa," said Caddy, "only cried and said he hoped we might geton better than he and Ma had got on. He didn't say so before Prince,he only said so to me. And he said, 'My poor girl, you have not beenvery well taught how to make a home for your husband, but unless youmean with all your heart to strive to do it, you had better murderhim than marry him--if you really love him.'"
"And how did you reassure him, Caddy?"
"Why, it was very distressing, you know, to see poor Pa so low andhear him say such terrible things, and I couldn't help crying myself.But I told him that I DID mean it with all my heart and that I hopedour house would be a place for him to come and find some comfort inof an evening and that I hoped and thought I could be a betterdaughter to him there than at home. Then I mentioned Peepy's comingto stay with me, and then Pa began to cry again and said the childrenwere Indians."
"Indians, Caddy?"
"Yes," said Caddy, "wild Indians. And Pa said"--here she began tosob, poor girl, not at all like the happiest girl in the world--"thathe was sensible the best thing that could happen to them was theirbeing all tomahawked together."
Ada suggested that it was comfortable to know that Mr. Jellyby didnot mean these destructive sentiments.
"No, of course I know Pa wouldn't like his family to be weltering intheir blood," said Caddy, "but he means that they are veryunfortunate in being Ma's children and that he is very unfortunate inbeing Ma's husband; and I am sure that's true, though it seemsunnatural to say so."
I asked Caddy if Mrs. Jellyby knew that her wedding-day was fixed.
"Oh! You know what Ma is, Esther," she returned. "It's impossible tosay whether she knows it or not. She has been told it often enough;and when she IS told it, she only gives me a placid look, as if I wasI don't know what--a steeple in the distance," said Caddy with asudden idea; "and then she shakes her head and says 'Oh, Caddy,Caddy, what a tease you are!' and goes on with the Borrioboolaletters."
"And about your wardrobe, Caddy?" said I. For she was under norestraint with us.
"Well, my dear Esther," she returned, drying her eyes, "I must do thebest I can and trust to my dear Prince never to have an unkindremembrance of my coming so shabbily to him. If the questionconcerned an outfit for Borrioboola, Ma would know all about it andwould be quite excited. Being what it is, she neither knows norcares."
Caddy was not at all deficient in natural affection for her mother,but mentioned this with tears as an undeniable fact, which I amafraid it was. We were sorry for the poor dear girl and found so muchto admire in the good disposition which had survived under suchdiscouragement that we both at once (I mean Ada and I) proposed alittle scheme that made her perfectly joyful. This was her stayingwith us for three weeks, my staying with her for one, and our allthree contriving and cutting out, and repairing, and sewing, andsaving, and doing the very best we could think of to make the most ofher stock. My guardian being as pleased with the idea as Caddy was,we took her home next day to arrange the matter and brought her outagain in triumph with her boxes and all the purchases that could besqueezed out of a ten-pound note, which Mr. Jellyby had found in thedocks I suppose, but which he at all events gave her. What myguardian would not have given her if we had encouraged him, it wouldbe difficult to say, but we thought it right to compound for no morethan her wedding-dress and bonnet. He agreed to this compromise, andif Caddy had ever been happy in her life, she was happy when we satdown to work.
She was clumsy enough with her needle, poor girl, and pricked herfingers as much as she had been used to ink them. She could not helpreddening a little now and then, partly with the smart and partlywith vexation at being able to do no better, but she soon got overthat and began to improve rapidly. So day after day she, and mydarling, and my little maid Charley, and a milliner out of the town,and I, sat hard at work, as pleasantly as possible.
Over and above this, Caddy was very anxious "to learn housekeeping,"as she said. Now, mercy upon us! The idea of her learninghousekeeping of a person of my vast experience was such a joke that Ilaughed, and coloured up, and fell into a comical confusion when sheproposed it. However, I said, "Caddy, I am sure you are very welcometo learn anything that you can learn of ME, my dear," and I showedher all my books and methods and all my fidgety ways. You would havesupposed that I was showing her some wonderful inventions, by herstudy of them; and if you had seen her, whenever I jingled myhousekeeping keys, get up and attend me, certainly you might havethought that there never was a greater imposter than I with a blinderfollower than Caddy Jellyby.
So what with working and housekeeping, and lessons to Charley, andbackgammon in the evening with my guardian, and duets with Ada, thethree weeks slipped fast away. Then I went home with Caddy to seewhat could be done there, and Ada and Charley remained behind to takecare of my guardian.
When I say I went home with Caddy, I mean to the furnished lodging inHatton Garden. We went to Newman Street two or three times, wherepreparations were in progress too--a good many, I observed, forenhancing the comforts of old Mr. Turveydrop, and a few for puttingthe newly married couple away cheaply at the top of the house--butour great point was to make the furnished lodging decent for thewedding-breakfast and to imbue Mrs. Jellyby beforehand with somefaint sense of the occasion.
The latter was the more difficult thing of the two because Mrs.Jellyby and an unwholesome boy occupied the front sitting-room (theback one was a mere closet), and it was littered down withwaste-paper and Borrioboolan documents, as an untidy stable might belittered with straw. Mrs. Jellyby sat there all day drinking strongcoffee, dictating, and holding Borrioboolan interviews byappointment. The unwholesome boy, who seemed to me to be going into adecline, took his meals out of the house. When Mr. Jellyby came home,he usually groaned and went down into the kitchen. There he gotsomething to eat if the servant would give him anything, and then,feeling that he was in the way, went out and walked about HattonGarden in the wet. The poor children scrambled up and tumbled downthe house as they had always been accustomed to do.
The production of these devoted little sacrifices in any presentablecondition being quite out of the question at a week's notice, Iproposed to Caddy that we should make them as happy as we could onher marriage morning in the attic where they all slept, and shouldconfine our greatest efforts to her mama and her mama's room, and aclean breakfast. In truth Mrs. Jellyby required a good deal ofattention, the lattice-work up her back having widened considerablysince I first knew her and her hair looking like the mane of adustman's horse.
Thinking that the display of Caddy's wardrobe would be the best meansof approaching the subject, I invited Mrs. Jellyby to come and lookat it spread out on Caddy's bed in the evening after the unwholesomeboy was gone.
"My dear Miss Summerson," said she, rising from her desk with herusual sweetness of temper, "these are really ridiculous preparations,though your assisting them is a proof of your kindness. There issomething so inexpressibly absurd to me in the idea of Caddy beingmarried! Oh, Caddy, you silly, silly, silly puss!"
She came upstairs with us notwithstanding and looked at the clothesin her customary far-off manner. They suggested one distinct idea toher, for she said with her placid smile, and shaking her head, "Mygood Miss Summerson, at half the cost, this weak child might havebeen equipped for Africa!"
On our going downstairs again, Mrs. Jellyby asked me whether thistroublesome business was really to take place next Wednesday. And onmy replying yes, she said, "Will my room be required, my dear MissSummerson? For it's quite impossible that I can put my papers away."
I took the liberty of saying that the room would certainly be wantedand that I thought we must put the papers away somewhere. "Well, mydear Miss Summerson," said Mrs. Jellyby, "you know best, I dare say.But by obliging me to employ a boy, Caddy has embarrassed me to thatextent, overwhelmed as I am with public business, that I don't knowwhich way to turn. We have a Ramification meeting, too, on Wednesdayafternoon, and the inconvenience is very serious."
"It is not likely to occur again," said I, smiling. "Caddy will bemarried but once, probably."
"That's true," Mrs. Jellyby replied; "that's true, my dear. I supposewe must make the best of it!"
The next question was how Mrs. Jellyby should be dressed on theoccasion. I thought it very curious to see her looking on serenelyfrom her writing-table while Caddy and I discussed it, occasionallyshaking her head at us with a half-reproachful smile like a superiorspirit who could just bear with our trifling.
The state in which her dresses were, and the extraordinary confusionin which she kept them, added not a little to our difficulty; but atlength we devised something not very unlike what a common-placemother might wear on such an occasion. The abstracted manner in whichMrs. Jellyby would deliver herself up to having this attire tried onby the dressmaker, and the sweetness with which she would thenobserve to me how sorry she was that I had not turned my thoughts toAfrica, were consistent with the rest of her behaviour.
The lodging was rather confined as to space, but I fancied that ifMrs. Jellyby's household had been the only lodgers in Saint Paul's orSaint Peter's, the sole advantage they would have found in the sizeof the building would have been its affording a great deal of room tobe dirty in. I believe that nothing belonging to the family which ithad been possible to break was unbroken at the time of thosepreparations for Caddy's marriage, that nothing which it had beenpossible to spoil in any way was unspoilt, and that no domesticobject which was capable of collecting dirt, from a dear child's kneeto the door-plate, was without as much dirt as could well accumulateupon it.
Poor Mr. Jellyby, who very seldom spoke and almost always sat when hewas at home with his head against the wall, became interested when hesaw that Caddy and I were attempting to establish some order amongall this waste and ruin and took off his coat to help. But suchwonderful things came tumbling out of the closets when they wereopened--bits of mouldy pie, sour bottles, Mrs. Jellyby's caps,letters, tea, forks, odd boots and shoes of children, firewood,wafers, saucepan-lids, damp sugar in odds and ends of paper bags,footstools, blacklead brushes, bread, Mrs. Jellyby's bonnets, bookswith butter sticking to the binding, guttered candle ends put outby being turned upside down in broken candlesticks, nutshells,heads and tails of shrimps, dinner-mats, gloves, coffee-grounds,umbrellas--that he looked frightened, and left off again. But he cameregularly every evening and sat without his coat, with his headagainst the wall, as though he would have helped us if he had knownhow.
"Poor Pa!" said Caddy to me on the night before the great day, whenwe really had got things a little to rights. "It seems unkind toleave him, Esther. But what could I do if I stayed! Since I firstknew you, I have tidied and tidied over and over again, but it'suseless. Ma and Africa, together, upset the whole house directly. Wenever have a servant who don't drink. Ma's ruinous to everything."
Mr. Jellyby could not hear what she said, but he seemed very lowindeed and shed tears, I thought.
"My heart aches for him; that it does!" sobbed Caddy. "I can't helpthinking to-night, Esther, how dearly I hope to be happy with Prince,and how dearly Pa hoped, I dare say, to be happy with Ma. What adisappointed life!"
"My dear Caddy!" said Mr. Jellyby, looking slowly round from thewail. It was the first time, I think, I ever heard him say threewords together.
"Yes, Pa!" cried Caddy, going to him and embracing himaffectionately.
"My dear Caddy," said Mr. Jellyby. "Never have--"
"Not Prince, Pa?" faltered Caddy. "Not have Prince?"
"Yes, my dear," said Mr. Jellyby. "Have him, certainly. But, neverhave--"
I mentioned in my account of our first visit in Thavies Inn thatRichard described Mr. Jellyby as frequently opening his mouth afterdinner without saying anything. It was a habit of his. He opened hismouth now a great many times and shook his head in a melancholymanner.
"What do you wish me not to have? Don't have what, dear Pa?" askedCaddy, coaxing him, with her arms round his neck.
"Never have a mission, my dear child."
Mr. Jellyby groaned and laid his head against the wall again, andthis was the only time I ever heard him make any approach toexpressing his sentiments on the Borrioboolan question. I suppose hehad been more talkative and lively once, but he seemed to have beencompletely exhausted long before I knew him.
I thought Mrs. Jellyby never would have left off serenely lookingover her papers and drinking coffee that night. It was twelve o'clockbefore we could obtain possession of the room, and the clearance itrequired then was so discouraging that Caddy, who was almost tiredout, sat down in the middle of the dust and cried. But she sooncheered up, and we did wonders with it before we went to bed.
In the morning it looked, by the aid of a few flowers and a quantityof soap and water and a little arrangement, quite gay. The plainbreakfast made a cheerful show, and Caddy was perfectly charming. Butwhen my darling came, I thought--and I think now--that I never hadseen such a dear face as my beautiful pet's.
We made a little feast for the children upstairs, and we put Peepy atthe head of the table, and we showed them Caddy in her bridal dress,and they clapped their hands and hurrahed, and Caddy cried to thinkthat she was going away from them and hugged them over and over againuntil we brought Prince up to fetch her away--when, I am sorry tosay, Peepy bit him. Then there was old Mr. Turveydrop downstairs, ina state of deportment not to be expressed, benignly blessing Caddyand giving my guardian to understand that his son's happiness was hisown parental work and that he sacrificed personal considerations toensure it. "My dear sir," said Mr. Turveydrop, "these young peoplewill live with me; my house is large enough for their accommodation,and they shall not want the shelter of my roof. I could havewished--you will understand the allusion, Mr. Jarndyce, for youremember my illustrious patron the Prince Regent--I could havewished that my son had married into a family where there was moredeportment, but the will of heaven be done!"
Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle were of the party--Mr. Pardiggle, anobstinate-looking man with a large waistcoat and stubbly hair, whowas always talking in a loud bass voice about his mite, or Mrs.Pardiggle's mite, or their five boys' mites. Mr. Quale, with his hairbrushed back as usual and his knobs of temples shining very much, wasalso there, not in the character of a disappointed lover, but as theaccepted of a young--at least, an unmarried--lady, a Miss Wisk, whowas also there. Miss Wisk's mission, my guardian said, was to showthe world that woman's mission was man's mission and that the onlygenuine mission of both man and woman was to be always movingdeclaratory resolutions about things in general at public meetings.The guests were few, but were, as one might expect at Mrs. Jellyby's,all devoted to public objects only. Besides those I have mentioned,there was an extremely dirty lady with her bonnet all awry and theticketed price of her dress still sticking on it, whose neglectedhome, Caddy told me, was like a filthy wilderness, but whose churchwas like a fancy fair. A very contentious gentleman, who said it washis mission to be everybody's brother but who appeared to be on termsof coolness with the whole of his large family, completed the party.
A party, having less in common with such an occasion, could hardlyhave been got together by any ingenuity. Such a mean mission as thedomestic mission was the very last thing to be endured among them;indeed, Miss Wisk informed us, with great indignation, before we satdown to breakfast, that the idea of woman's mission lying chiefly inthe narrow sphere of home was an outrageous slander on the part ofher tyrant, man. One other singularity was that nobody with amission--except Mr. Quale, whose mission, as I think I have formerlysaid, was to be in ecstasies with everybody's mission--cared at allfor anybody's mission. Mrs. Pardiggle being as clear that the onlyone infallible course was her course of pouncing upon the poor andapplying benevolence to them like a strait-waistcoat; as Miss Wiskwas that the only practical thing for the world was the emancipationof woman from the thraldom of her tyrant, man. Mrs. Jellyby, all thewhile, sat smiling at the limited vision that could see anything butBorrioboola-Gha.
But I am anticipating now the purport of our conversation on the ridehome instead of first marrying Caddy. We all went to church, and Mr.Jellyby gave her away. Of the air with which old Mr. Turveydrop, withhis hat under his left arm (the inside presented at the clergymanlike a cannon) and his eyes creasing themselves up into his wig,stood stiff and high-shouldered behind us bridesmaids during theceremony, and afterwards saluted us, I could never say enough to doit justice. Miss Wisk, whom I cannot report as prepossessing inappearance, and whose manner was grim, listened to the proceedings,as part of woman's wrongs, with a disdainful face. Mrs. Jellyby, withher calm smile and her bright eyes, looked the least concerned of allthe company.
We duly came back to breakfast, and Mrs. Jellyby sat at the head ofthe table and Mr. Jellyby at the foot. Caddy had previously stolenupstairs to hug the children again and tell them that her name wasTurveydrop. But this piece of information, instead of being anagreeable surprise to Peepy, threw him on his back in such transportsof kicking grief that I could do nothing on being sent for but accedeto the proposal that he should be admitted to the breakfast table. Sohe came down and sat in my lap; and Mrs. Jellyby, after saying, inreference to the state of his pinafore, "Oh, you naughty Peepy, whata shocking little pig you are!" was not at all discomposed. He wasvery good except that he brought down Noah with him (out of an ark Ihad given him before we went to church) and WOULD dip him head firstinto the wine-glasses and then put him in his mouth.
My guardian, with his sweet temper and his quick perception and hisamiable face, made something agreeable even out of the ungenialcompany. None of them seemed able to talk about anything but his, orher, own one subject, and none of them seemed able to talk about eventhat as part of a world in which there was anything else; but myguardian turned it all to the merry encouragement of Caddy and thehonour of the occasion, and brought us through the breakfast nobly.What we should have done without him, I am afraid to think, for allthe company despising the bride and bridegroom and old Mr.Turveydrop--and old Mr. Thurveydrop, in virtue of his deportment,considering himself vastly superior to all the company--it was a veryunpromising case.
At last the time came when poor Caddy was to go and when all herproperty was packed on the hired coach and pair that was to take herand her husband to Gravesend. It affected us to see Caddy clinging,then, to her deplorable home and hanging on her mother's neck withthe greatest tenderness.
"I am very sorry I couldn't go on writing from dictation, Ma," sobbedCaddy. "I hope you forgive me now."
"Oh, Caddy, Caddy!" said Mrs. Jellyby. "I have told you over and overagain that I have engaged a boy, and there's an end of it."
"You are sure you are not the least angry with me, Ma? Say you aresure before I go away, Ma?"
"You foolish Caddy," returned Mrs. Jellyby, "do I look angry, or haveI inclination to be angry, or time to be angry? How CAN you?"
"Take a little care of Pa while I am gone, Mama!"
Mrs. Jellyby positively laughed at the fancy. "You romantic child,"said she, lightly patting Caddy's back. "Go along. I am excellentfriends with you. Now, good-bye, Caddy, and be very happy!"
Then Caddy hung upon her father and nursed his cheek against hers asif he were some poor dull child in pain. All this took place in thehall. Her father released her, took out his pocket handkerchief, andsat down on the stairs with his head against the wall. I hope hefound some consolation in walls. I almost think he did.
And then Prince took her arm in his and turned with great emotion andrespect to his father, whose deportment at that moment wasoverwhelming.
"Thank you over and over again, father!" said Prince, kissing hishand. "I am very grateful for all your kindness and considerationregarding our marriage, and so, I can assure you, is Caddy."
"Very," sobbed Caddy. "Ve-ry!"
"My dear son," said Mr. Turveydrop, "and dear daughter, I have donemy duty. If the spirit of a sainted wooman hovers above us and looksdown on the occasion, that, and your constant affection, will be myrecompense. You will not fail in YOUR duty, my son and daughter, Ibelieve?"
"Dear father, never!" cried Prince.
"Never, never, dear Mr. Turveydrop!" said Caddy.
"This," returned Mr. Turveydrop, "is as it should be. My children, myhome is yours, my heart is yours, my all is yours. I will never leaveyou; nothing but death shall part us. My dear son, you contemplate anabsence of a week, I think?"
"A week, dear father. We shall return home this day week."
"My dear child," said Mr. Turveydrop, "let me, even under the presentexceptional circumstances, recommend strict punctuality. It is highlyimportant to keep the connexion together; and schools, if at allneglected, are apt to take offence."
"This day week, father, we shall be sure to be home to dinner."
"Good!" said Mr. Turveydrop. "You will find fires, my dear Caroline,in your own room, and dinner prepared in my apartment. Yes, yes,Prince!" anticipating some self-denying objection on his son's partwith a great air. "You and our Caroline will be strange in the upperpart of the premises and will, therefore, dine that day in myapartment. Now, bless ye!"
They drove away, and whether I wondered most at Mrs. Jellyby or atMr. Turveydrop, I did not know. Ada and my guardian were in the samecondition when we came to talk it over. But before we drove away too,I received a most unexpected and eloquent compliment from Mr.Jellyby. He came up to me in the hall, took both my hands, pressedthem earnestly, and opened his mouth twice. I was so sure of hismeaning that I said, quite flurried, "You are very welcome, sir. Praydon't mention it!"
"I hope this marriage is for the best, guardian," said I when wethree were on our road home.
"I hope it is, little woman. Patience. We shall see."
"Is the wind in the east to-day?" I ventured to ask him.
He laughed heartily and answered, "No."
"But it must have been this morning, I think," said I.
He answered "No" again, and this time my dear girl confidentlyanswered "No" too and shook the lovely head which, with its bloomingflowers against the golden hair, was like the very spring. "Much YOUknow of east winds, my ugly darling," said I, kissing her in myadmiration--I couldn't help it.
Well! It was only their love for me, I know very well, and it is along time ago. I must write it even if I rub it out again, because itgives me so much pleasure. They said there could be no east windwhere Somebody was; they said that wherever Dame Durden went, therewas sunshine and summer air.



CHAPTER XXXI
Nurse and Patient

I had not been at home again many days when one evening I wentupstairs into my own room to take a peep over Charley's shoulder andsee how she was getting on with her copy-book. Writing was a tryingbusiness to Charley, who seemed to have no natural power over a pen,but in whose hand every pen appeared to become perversely animated,and to go wrong and crooked, and to stop, and splash, and sidle intocorners like a saddle-donkey. It was very odd to see what old lettersCharley's young hand had made, they so wrinkled, and shrivelled, andtottering, it so plump and round. Yet Charley was uncommonly expertat other things and had as nimble little fingers as I ever watched.
"Well, Charley," said I, looking over a copy of the letter O in whichit was represented as square, triangular, pear-shaped, and collapsedin all kinds of ways, "we are improving. If we only get to make itround, we shall be perfect, Charley."
Then I made one, and Charley made one, and the pen wouldn't joinCharley's neatly, but twisted it up into a knot.
"Never mind, Charley. We shall do it in time."
Charley laid down her pen, the copy being finished, opened and shuther cramped little hand, looked gravely at the page, half in prideand half in doubt, and got up, and dropped me a curtsy.
"Thank you, miss. If you please, miss, did you know a poor person ofthe name of Jenny?"
"A brickmaker's wife, Charley? Yes."
"She came and spoke to me when I was out a little while ago, and saidyou knew her, miss. She asked me if I wasn't the young lady's littlemaid--meaning you for the young lady, miss--and I said yes, miss."
"I thought she had left this neighbourhood altogether, Charley."
"So she had, miss, but she's come back again to where she used tolive--she and Liz. Did you know another poor person of the name ofLiz, miss?"
"I think I do, Charley, though not by name."
"That's what she said!" returned Charley. "They have both come back,miss, and have been tramping high and low."
"Tramping high and low, have they, Charley?"
"Yes, miss." If Charley could only have made the letters in her copyas round as the eyes with which she looked into my face, they wouldhave been excellent. "And this poor person came about the house threeor four days, hoping to get a glimpse of you, miss--all she wanted,she said--but you were away. That was when she saw me. She saw mea-going about, miss," said Charley with a short laugh of the greatestdelight and pride, "and she thought I looked like your maid!"
"Did she though, really, Charley?"
"Yes, miss!" said Charley. "Really and truly." And Charley, withanother short laugh of the purest glee, made her eyes very roundagain and looked as serious as became my maid. I was never tired ofseeing Charley in the full enjoyment of that great dignity, standingbefore me with her youthful face and figure, and her steady manner,and her childish exultation breaking through it now and then in thepleasantest way.
"And where did you see her, Charley?" said I.
My little maid's countenance fell as she replied, "By the doctor'sshop, miss." For Charley wore her black frock yet.
I asked if the brickmaker's wife were ill, but Charley said no. Itwas some one else. Some one in her cottage who had tramped down toSaint Albans and was tramping he didn't know where. A poor boy,Charley said. No father, no mother, no any one. "Like as Tom mighthave been, miss, if Emma and me had died after father," said Charley,her round eyes filling with tears.
"And she was getting medicine for him, Charley?"
"She said, miss," returned Charley, "how that he had once done asmuch for her."
My little maid's face was so eager and her quiet hands were folded soclosely in one another as she stood looking at me that I had no greatdifficulty in reading her thoughts. "Well, Charley," said I, "itappears to me that you and I can do no better than go round toJenny's and see what's the matter."
The alacrity with which Charley brought my bonnet and veil, andhaving dressed me, quaintly pinned herself into her warm shawl andmade herself look like a little old woman, sufficiently expressed herreadiness. So Charley and I, without saying anything to any one, wentout.
It was a cold, wild night, and the trees shuddered in the wind. Therain had been thick and heavy all day, and with little intermissionfor many days. None was falling just then, however. The sky hadpartly cleared, but was very gloomy--even above us, where a few starswere shining. In the north and north-west, where the sun had setthree hours before, there was a pale dead light both beautiful andawful; and into it long sullen lines of cloud waved up like a seastricken immovable as it was heaving. Towards London a lurid glareoverhung the whole dark waste, and the contrast between these twolights, and the fancy which the redder light engendered of anunearthly fire, gleaming on all the unseen buildings of the city andon all the faces of its many thousands of wondering inhabitants, wasas solemn as might be.
I had no thought that night--none, I am quite sure--of what was soonto happen to me. But I have always remembered since that when we hadstopped at the garden-gate to look up at the sky, and when we wentupon our way, I had for a moment an undefinable impression of myselfas being something different from what I then was. I know it was thenand there that I had it. I have ever since connected the feeling withthat spot and time and with everything associated with that spot andtime, to the distant voices in the town, the barking of a dog, andthe sound of wheels coming down the miry hill.
It was Saturday night, and most of the people belonging to the placewhere we were going were drinking elsewhere. We found it quieter thanI had previously seen it, though quite as miserable. The kilns wereburning, and a stifling vapour set towards us with a pale-blue glare.
We came to the cottage, where there was a feeble candle in thepatched window. We tapped at the door and went in. The mother of thelittle child who had died was sitting in a chair on one side of thepoor fire by the bed; and opposite to her, a wretched boy, supportedby the chimney-piece, was cowering on the floor. He held under hisarm, like a little bundle, a fragment of a fur cap; and as he triedto warm himself, he shook until the crazy door and window shook. Theplace was closer than before and had an unhealthy and a very peculiarsmell.
I had not lifted my veil when I first spoke to the woman, which wasat the moment of our going in. The boy staggered up instantly andstared at me with a remarkable expression of surprise and terror.
His action was so quick and my being the cause of it was so evidentthat I stood still instead of advancing nearer.
"I won't go no more to the berryin ground," muttered the boy; "Iain't a-going there, so I tell you!"
I lifted my veil and spoke to the woman. She said to me in a lowvoice, "Don't mind him, ma'am. He'll soon come back to his head," andsaid to him, "Jo, Jo, what's the matter?"
"I know wot she's come for!" cried the boy.
"Who?"
"The lady there. She's come to get me to go along with her to theberryin ground. I won't go to the berryin ground. I don't like thename on it. She might go a-berryin ME." His shivering came on again,and as he leaned against the wall, he shook the hovel.
"He has been talking off and on about such like all day, ma'am," saidJenny softly. "Why, how you stare! This is MY lady, Jo."
"Is it?" returned the boy doubtfully, and surveying me with his armheld out above his burning eyes. "She looks to me the t'other one. Itain't the bonnet, nor yet it ain't the gownd, but she looks to me thet'other one."
My little Charley, with her premature experience of illness andtrouble, had pulled off her bonnet and shawl and now went quietly upto him with a chair and sat him down in it like an old sick nurse.Except that no such attendant could have shown him Charley's youthfulface, which seemed to engage his confidence.
"I say!" said the boy. "YOU tell me. Ain't the lady the t'otherlady?"
Charley shook her head as she methodically drew his rags about himand made him as warm as she could.
"Oh!" the boy muttered. "Then I s'pose she ain't."
"I came to see if I could do you any good," said I. "What is thematter with you?"
"I'm a-being froze," returned the boy hoarsely, with his haggard gazewandering about me, "and then burnt up, and then froze, and thenburnt up, ever so many times in a hour. And my head's all sleepy, andall a-going mad-like--and I'm so dry--and my bones isn't half so muchbones as pain.
"When did he come here?" I asked the woman.
"This morning, ma'am, I found him at the corner of the town. I hadknown him up in London yonder. Hadn't I, Jo?"
"Tom-all-Alone's," the boy replied.
Whenever he fixed his attention or his eyes, it was only for a verylittle while. He soon began to droop his head again, and roll itheavily, and speak as if he were half awake.
"When did he come from London?" I asked.
"I come from London yes'day," said the boy himself, now flushed andhot. "I'm a-going somewheres."
"Where is he going?" I asked.
"Somewheres," repeated the boy in a louder tone. "I have been movedon, and moved on, more nor ever I was afore, since the t'other onegive me the sov'ring. Mrs. Snagsby, she's always a-watching, anda-driving of me--what have I done to her?--and they're all a-watchingand a-driving of me. Every one of 'em's doing of it, from the timewhen I don't get up, to the time when I don't go to bed. And I'ma-going somewheres. That's where I'm a-going. She told me, down inTom-all-Alone's, as she came from Stolbuns, and so I took theStolbuns Road. It's as good as another."
He always concluded by addressing Charley.
"What is to be done with him?" said I, taking the woman aside. "Hecould not travel in this state even if he had a purpose and knewwhere he was going!"
"I know no more, ma'am, than the dead," she replied, glancingcompassionately at him. "Perhaps the dead know better, if they couldonly tell us. I've kept him here all day for pity's sake, and I'vegiven him broth and physic, and Liz has gone to try if any one willtake him in (here's my pretty in the bed--her child, but I call itmine); but I can't keep him long, for if my husband was to come homeand find him here, he'd be rough in putting him out and might do hima hurt. Hark! Here comes Liz back!"
The other woman came hurriedly in as she spoke, and the boy got upwith a half-obscured sense that he was expected to be going. When thelittle child awoke, and when and how Charley got at it, took it outof bed, and began to walk about hushing it, I don't know. There shewas, doing all this in a quiet motherly manner as if she were livingin Mrs. Blinder's attic with Tom and Emma again.
The friend had been here and there, and had been played about fromhand to hand, and had come back as she went. At first it was tooearly for the boy to be received into the proper refuge, and at lastit was too late. One official sent her to another, and the other senther back again to the first, and so backward and forward, until itappeared to me as if both must have been appointed for their skill inevading their duties instead of performing them. And now, after all,she said, breathing quickly, for she had been running and wasfrightened too, "Jenny, your master's on the road home, and mine'snot far behind, and the Lord help the boy, for we can do no more forhim!" They put a few halfpence together and hurried them into hishand, and so, in an oblivious, half-thankful, half-insensible way, heshuffled out of the house.
"Give me the child, my dear," said its mother to Charley, "and thankyou kindly too! Jenny, woman dear, good night! Young lady, if mymaster don't fall out with me, I'll look down by the kiln by and by,where the boy will be most like, and again in the morning!" Shehurried off, and presently we passed her hushing and singing to herchild at her own door and looking anxiously along the road for herdrunken husband.
I was afraid of staying then to speak to either woman, lest I shouldbring her into trouble. But I said to Charley that we must not leavethe boy to die. Charley, who knew what to do much better than I did,and whose quickness equalled her presence of mind, glided on beforeme, and presently we came up with Jo, just short of the brick-kiln.
I think he must have begun his journey with some small bundle underhis arm and must have had it stolen or lost it. For he still carriedhis wretched fragment of fur cap like a bundle, though he wentbare-headed through the rain, which now fell fast. He stopped when wecalled to him and again showed a dread of me when I came up, standingwith his lustrous eyes fixed upon me, and even arrested in hisshivering fit.
I asked him to come with us, and we would take care that he had someshelter for the night.
"I don't want no shelter," he said; "I can lay amongst the warmbricks."
"But don't you know that people die there?" replied Charley.
"They dies everywheres," said the boy. "They dies in theirlodgings--she knows where; I showed her--and they dies down inTom-all-Alone's in heaps. They dies more than they lives, accordingto what I see." Then he hoarsely whispered Charley, "If she ain't thet'other one, she ain't the forrenner. Is there THREE of 'em then?"
Charley looked at me a little frightened. I felt half frightened atmyself when the boy glared on me so.
But he turned and followed when I beckoned to him, and finding thathe acknowledged that influence in me, I led the way straight home. Itwas not far, only at the summit of the hill. We passed but one man. Idoubted if we should have got home without assistance, the boy'ssteps were so uncertain and tremulous. He made no complaint, however,and was strangely unconcerned about himself, if I may say so strangea thing.
Leaving him in the hall for a moment, shrunk into the corner of thewindow-seat and staring with an indifference that scarcely could becalled wonder at the comfort and brightness about him, I went intothe drawing-room to speak to my guardian. There I found Mr. Skimpole,who had come down by the coach, as he frequently did without notice,and never bringing any clothes with him, but always borrowingeverything he wanted.
They came out with me directly to look at the boy. The servants hadgathered in the hall too, and he shivered in the window-seat withCharley standing by him, like some wounded animal that had been foundin a ditch.
"This is a sorrowful case," said my guardian after asking him aquestion or two and touching him and examining his eyes. "What do yousay, Harold?"
"You had better turn him out," said Mr. Skimpole.
"What do you mean?" inquired my guardian, almost sternly.
"My dear Jarndyce," said Mr. Skimpole, "you know what I am: I am achild. Be cross to me if I deserve it. But I have a constitutionalobjection to this sort of thing. I always had, when I was a medicalman. He's not safe, you know. There's a very bad sort of fever abouthim."
Mr. Skimpole had retreated from the hall to the drawing-room againand said this in his airy way, seated on the music-stool as we stoodby.
"You'll say it's childish," observed Mr. Skimpole, looking gaily atus. "Well, I dare say it may be; but I AM a child, and I neverpretend to be anything else. If you put him out in the road, you onlyput him where he was before. He will be no worse off than he was, youknow. Even make him better off, if you like. Give him sixpence, orfive shillings, or five pound ten--you are arithmeticians, and I amnot--and get rid of him!"
"And what is he to do then?" asked my guardian.
"Upon my life," said Mr. Skimpole, shrugging his shoulders with hisengaging smile, "I have not the least idea what he is to do then. ButI have no doubt he'll do it."
"Now, is it not a horrible reflection," said my guardian, to whom Ihad hastily explained the unavailing efforts of the two women, "is itnot a horrible reflection," walking up and down and rumpling hishair, "that if this wretched creature were a convicted prisoner, hishospital would be wide open to him, and he would be as well takencare of as any sick boy in the kingdom?"
"My dear Jarndyce," returned Mr. Skimpole, "you'll pardon thesimplicity of the question, coming as it does from a creature who isperfectly simple in worldly matters, but why ISN'T he a prisonerthen?"
My guardian stopped and looked at him with a whimsical mixture ofamusement and indignation in his face.
"Our young friend is not to be suspected of any delicacy, I shouldimagine," said Mr. Skimpole, unabashed and candid. "It seems to methat it would be wiser, as well as in a certain kind of way morerespectable, if he showed some misdirected energy that got him intoprison. There would be more of an adventurous spirit in it, andconsequently more of a certain sort of poetry."
"I believe," returned my guardian, resuming his uneasy walk, "thatthere is not such another child on earth as yourself."
"Do you really?" said Mr. Skimpole. "I dare say! But I confess Idon't see why our young friend, in his degree, should not seek toinvest himself with such poetry as is open to him. He is no doubtborn with an appetite--probably, when he is in a safer state ofhealth, he has an excellent appetite. Very well. At our youngfriend's natural dinner hour, most likely about noon, our youngfriend says in effect to society, 'I am hungry; will you have thegoodness to produce your spoon and feed me?' Society, which has takenupon itself the general arrangement of the whole system of spoons andprofesses to have a spoon for our young friend, does NOT produce thatspoon; and our young friend, therefore, says 'You really must excuseme if I seize it.' Now, this appears to me a case of misdirectedenergy, which has a certain amount of reason in it and a certainamount of romance; and I don't know but what I should be moreinterested in our young friend, as an illustration of such a case,than merely as a poor vagabond--which any one can be."
"In the meantime," I ventured to observe, "he is getting worse."
"In the meantime," said Mr. Skimpole cheerfully, "as Miss Summerson,with her practical good sense, observes, he is getting worse.Therefore I recommend your turning him out before he gets stillworse."
The amiable face with which he said it, I think I shall never forget.
"Of course, little woman," observed my guardian, turning to me, "Ican ensure his admission into the proper place by merely going thereto enforce it, though it's a bad state of things when, in hiscondition, that is necessary. But it's growing late, and is a verybad night, and the boy is worn out already. There is a bed in thewholesome loft-room by the stable; we had better keep him there tillmorning, when he can be wrapped up and removed. We'll do that."
"Oh!" said Mr. Skimpole, with his hands upon the keys of the piano aswe moved away. "Are you going back to our young friend?"
"Yes," said my guardian.
"How I envy you your constitution, Jarndyce!" returned Mr. Skimpolewith playful admiration. "You don't mind these things; neither doesMiss Summerson. You are ready at all times to go anywhere, and doanything. Such is will! I have no will at all--and no won't--simplycan't."
"You can't recommend anything for the boy, I suppose?" said myguardian, looking back over his shoulder half angrily; only halfangrily, for he never seemed to consider Mr. Skimpole an accountablebeing.
"My dear Jarndyce, I observed a bottle of cooling medicine in hispocket, and it's impossible for him to do better than take it. Youcan tell them to sprinkle a little vinegar about the place where hesleeps and to keep it moderately cool and him moderately warm. But itis mere impertinence in me to offer any recommendation. MissSummerson has such a knowledge of detail and such a capacity for theadministration of detail that she knows all about it."
We went back into the hall and explained to Jo what we proposed todo, which Charley explained to him again and which he received withthe languid unconcern I had already noticed, wearily looking on atwhat was done as if it were for somebody else. The servantscompassionating his miserable state and being very anxious to help,we soon got the loft-room ready; and some of the men about the housecarried him across the wet yard, well wrapped up. It was pleasant toobserve how kind they were to him and how there appeared to be ageneral impression among them that frequently calling him "Old Chap"was likely to revive his spirits. Charley directed the operations andwent to and fro between the loft-room and the house with such littlestimulants and comforts as we thought it safe to give him. Myguardian himself saw him before he was left for the night andreported to me when he returned to the growlery to write a letter onthe boy's behalf, which a messenger was charged to deliver atday-light in the morning, that he seemed easier and inclined tosleep. They had fastened his door on the outside, he said, in case ofhis being delirious, but had so arranged that he could not make anynoise without being heard.
Ada being in our room with a cold, Mr. Skimpole was left alone allthis time and entertained himself by playing snatches of patheticairs and sometimes singing to them (as we heard at a distance) withgreat expression and feeling. When we rejoined him in thedrawing-room he said he would give us a little ballad which had comeinto his head "apropos of our young friend," and he sang one about apeasant boy,
   "Thrown on the wide world, doomed to wander and roam,    Bereft of his parents, bereft of a home."
quite exquisitely. It was a song that always made him cry, he toldus.
He was extremely gay all the rest of the evening, for he absolutelychirped--those were his delighted words--when he thought by what ahappy talent for business he was surrounded. He gave us, in his glassof negus, "Better health to our young friend!" and supposed and gailypursued the case of his being reserved like Whittington to becomeLord Mayor of London. In that event, no doubt, he would establish theJarndyce Institution and the Summerson Almshouses, and a littleannual Corporation Pilgrimage to St. Albans. He had no doubt, hesaid, that our young friend was an excellent boy in his way, but hisway was not the Harold Skimpole way; what Harold Skimpole was, HaroldSkimpole had found himself, to his considerable surprise, when hefirst made his own acquaintance; he had accepted himself with all hisfailings and had thought it sound philosophy to make the best of thebargain; and he hoped we would do the same.
Charley's last report was that the boy was quiet. I could see, frommy window, the lantern they had left him burning quietly; and I wentto bed very happy to think that he was sheltered.
There was more movement and more talking than usual a little beforedaybreak, and it awoke me. As I was dressing, I looked out of mywindow and asked one of our men who had been among the activesympathizers last night whether there was anything wrong about thehouse. The lantern was still burning in the loft-window.
"It's the boy, miss," said he.
"Is he worse?" I inquired.
"Gone, miss.
"Dead!"
"Dead, miss? No. Gone clean off."
At what time of the night he had gone, or how, or why, it seemedhopeless ever to divine. The door remaining as it had been left, andthe lantern standing in the window, it could only be supposed that hehad got out by a trap in the floor which communicated with an emptycart-house below. But he had shut it down again, if that were so; andit looked as if it had not been raised. Nothing of any kind wasmissing. On this fact being clearly ascertained, we all yielded tothe painful belief that delirium had come upon him in the night andthat, allured by some imaginary object or pursued by some imaginaryhorror, he had strayed away in that worse than helpless state; all ofus, that is to say, but Mr. Skimpole, who repeatedly suggested, inhis usual easy light style, that it had occurred to our young friendthat he was not a safe inmate, having a bad kind of fever upon him,and that he had with great natural politeness taken himself off.
Every possible inquiry was made, and every place was searched. Thebrick-kilns were examined, the cottages were visited, the two womenwere particularly questioned, but they knew nothing of him, andnobody could doubt that their wonder was genuine. The weather had forsome time been too wet and the night itself had been too wet to admitof any tracing by footsteps. Hedge and ditch, and wall, and rick andstack, were examined by our men for a long distance round, lest theboy should be lying in such a place insensible or dead; but nothingwas seen to indicate that he had ever been near. From the time whenhe was left in the loft-room, he vanished.
The search continued for five days. I do not mean that it ceased eventhen, but that my attention was then diverted into a current verymemorable to me.
As Charley was at her writing again in my room in the evening, and asI sat opposite to her at work, I felt the table tremble. Looking up,I saw my little maid shivering from head to foot.
"Charley," said I, "are you so cold?"
"I think I am, miss," she replied. "I don't know what it is. I can'thold myself still. I felt so yesterday at about this same time, miss.Don't be uneasy, I think I'm ill."
I heard Ada's voice outside, and I hurried to the door ofcommunication between my room and our pretty sitting-room, and lockedit. Just in time, for she tapped at it while my hand was yet upon thekey.
Ada called to me to let her in, but I said, "Not now, my dearest. Goaway. There's nothing the matter; I will come to you presently." Ah!It was a long, long time before my darling girl and I were companionsagain.
Charley fell ill. In twelve hours she was very ill. I moved her to myroom, and laid her in my bed, and sat down quietly to nurse her. Itold my guardian all about it, and why I felt it was necessary that Ishould seclude myself, and my reason for not seeing my darling aboveall. At first she came very often to the door, and called to me, andeven reproached me with sobs and tears; but I wrote her a long lettersaying that she made me anxious and unhappy and imploring her, as sheloved me and wished my mind to be at peace, to come no nearer thanthe garden. After that she came beneath the window even oftener thanshe had come to the door, and if I had learnt to love her dear sweetvoice before when we were hardly ever apart, how did I learn to loveit then, when I stood behind the window-curtain listening andreplying, but not so much as looking out! How did I learn to love itafterwards, when the harder time came!
They put a bed for me in our sitting-room; and by keeping the doorwide open, I turned the two rooms into one, now that Ada had vacatedthat part of the house, and kept them always fresh and airy. Therewas not a servant in or about the house but was so good that theywould all most gladly have come to me at any hour of the day or nightwithout the least fear or unwillingness, but I thought it best tochoose one worthy woman who was never to see Ada and whom I couldtrust to come and go with all precaution. Through her means I got outto take the air with my guardian when there was no fear of meetingAda, and wanted for nothing in the way of attendance, any more thanin any other respect.
And thus poor Charley sickened and grew worse, and fell into heavydanger of death, and lay severely ill for many a long round of dayand night. So patient she was, so uncomplaining, and inspired by sucha gentle fortitude that very often as I sat by Charley holding herhead in my arms--repose would come to her, so, when it would come toher in no other attitude--I silently prayed to our Father in heaventhat I might not forget the lesson which this little sister taughtme.
I was very sorrowful to think that Charley's pretty looks wouldchange and be disfigured, even if she recovered--she was such a childwith her dimpled face--but that thought was, for the greater part,lost in her greater peril. When she was at the worst, and her mindrambled again to the cares of her father's sick bed and the littlechildren, she still knew me so far as that she would be quiet in myarms when she could lie quiet nowhere else, and murmur out thewanderings of her mind less restlessly. At those times I used tothink, how should I ever tell the two remaining babies that the babywho had learned of her faithful heart to be a mother to them in theirneed was dead!
There were other times when Charley knew me well and talked to me,telling me that she sent her love to Tom and Emma and that she wassure Tom would grow up to be a good man. At those times Charley wouldspeak to me of what she had read to her father as well as she couldto comfort him, of that young man carried out to be buried who wasthe only son of his mother and she was a widow, of the ruler'sdaughter raised up by the gracious hand upon her bed of death. AndCharley told me that when her father died she had kneeled down andprayed in her first sorrow that he likewise might be raised up andgiven back to his poor children, and that if she should never getbetter and should die too, she thought it likely that it might comeinto Tom's mind to offer the same prayer for her. Then would I showTom how these people of old days had been brought back to life onearth, only that we might know our hope to be restored to heaven!
But of all the various times there were in Charley's illness, therewas not one when she lost the gentle qualities I have spoken of. Andthere were many, many when I thought in the night of the last highbelief in the watching angel, and the last higher trust in God, onthe part of her poor despised father.
And Charley did not die. She flutteringly and slowly turned thedangerous point, after long lingering there, and then began to mend.The hope that never had been given, from the first, of Charley beingin outward appearance Charley any more soon began to be encouraged;and even that prospered, and I saw her growing into her old childishlikeness again.
It was a great morning when I could tell Ada all this as she stoodout in the garden; and it was a great evening when Charley and I atlast took tea together in the next room. But on that same evening, Ifelt that I was stricken cold.
Happily for both of us, it was not until Charley was safe in bedagain and placidly asleep that I began to think the contagion of herillness was upon me. I had been able easily to hide what I felt attea-time, but I was past that already now, and I knew that I wasrapidly following in Charley's steps.
I was well enough, however, to be up early in the morning, and toreturn my darling's cheerful blessing from the garden, and to talkwith her as long as usual. But I was not free from an impression thatI had been walking about the two rooms in the night, a little besidemyself, though knowing where I was; and I felt confused attimes--with a curious sense of fullness, as if I were becoming toolarge altogether.
In the evening I was so much worse that I resolved to prepareCharley, with which view I said, "You're getting quite strong,Charley, are you not?'
"Oh, quite!" said Charley.
"Strong enough to be told a secret, I think, Charley?"
"Quite strong enough for that, miss!" cried Charley. But Charley'sface fell in the height of her delight, for she saw the secret in MYface; and she came out of the great chair, and fell upon my bosom,and said "Oh, miss, it's my doing! It's my doing!" and a great dealmore out of the fullness of her grateful heart.
"Now, Charley," said I after letting her go on for a little while,"if I am to be ill, my great trust, humanly speaking, is in you. Andunless you are as quiet and composed for me as you always were foryourself, you can never fulfil it, Charley."
"If you'll let me cry a little longer, miss," said Charley. "Oh, mydear, my dear! If you'll only let me cry a little longer. Oh, mydear!"--how affectionately and devotedly she poured this out as sheclung to my neck, I never can remember without tears--"I'll be good."
So I let Charley cry a little longer, and it did us both good.
"Trust in me now, if you please, miss," said Charley quietly. "I amlistening to everything you say."
"It's very little at present, Charley. I shall tell your doctorto-night that I don't think I am well and that you are going to nurseme."
For that the poor child thanked me with her whole heart. "And in themorning, when you hear Miss Ada in the garden, if I should not bequite able to go to the window-curtain as usual, do you go, Charley,and say I am asleep--that I have rather tired myself, and am asleep.At all times keep the room as I have kept it, Charley, and let no onecome."
Charley promised, and I lay down, for I was very heavy. I saw thedoctor that night and asked the favour of him that I wished to askrelative to his saying nothing of my illness in the house as yet. Ihave a very indistinct remembrance of that night melting into day,and of day melting into night again; but I was just able on the firstmorning to get to the window and speak to my darling.
On the second morning I heard her dear voice--Oh, how dearnow!--outside; and I asked Charley, with some difficulty (speechbeing painful to me), to go and say I was asleep. I heard her answersoftly, "Don't disturb her, Charley, for the world!"
"How does my own Pride look, Charley?" I inquired.
"Disappointed, miss," said Charley, peeping through the curtain.
"But I know she is very beautiful this morning."
"She is indeed, miss," answered Charley, peeping. "Still looking upat the window."
With her blue clear eyes, God bless them, always loveliest whenraised like that!
I called Charley to me and gave her her last charge.
"Now, Charley, when she knows I am ill, she will try to make her wayinto the room. Keep her out, Charley, if you love me truly, to thelast! Charley, if you let her in but once, only to look upon me forone moment as I lie here, I shall die."
"I never will! I never will!" she promised me.
"I believe it, my dear Charley. And now come and sit beside me for alittle while, and touch me with your hand. For I cannot see you,Charley; I am blind."



CHAPTER XXXII
The Appointed Time

It is night in Lincoln's Inn--perplexed and troublous valley of theshadow of the law, where suitors generally find but little day--andfat candles are snuffed out in offices, and clerks have rattled downthe crazy wooden stairs and dispersed. The bell that rings at nineo'clock has ceased its doleful clangour about nothing; the gates areshut; and the night-porter, a solemn warder with a mighty power ofsleep, keeps guard in his lodge. From tiers of staircase windowsclogged lamps like the eyes of Equity, bleared Argus with afathomless pocket for every eye and an eye upon it, dimly blink atthe stars. In dirty upper casements, here and there, hazy littlepatches of candlelight reveal where some wise draughtsman andconveyancer yet toils for the entanglement of real estate in meshesof sheep-skin, in the average ratio of about a dozen of sheep to anacre of land. Over which bee-like industry these benefactors of theirspecies linger yet, though office-hours be past, that they may give,for every day, some good account at last.
In the neighbouring court, where the Lord Chancellor of the rag andbottle shop dwells, there is a general tendency towards beer andsupper. Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins, whose respective sons, engagedwith a circle of acquaintance in the game of hide and seek, have beenlying in ambush about the by-ways of Chancery Lane for some hours andscouring the plain of the same thoroughfare to the confusion ofpassengers--Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins have but now exchangedcongratulations on the children being abed, and they still linger ona door-step over a few parting words. Mr. Krook and his lodger, andthe fact of Mr. Krook's being "continually in liquor," and thetestamentary prospects of the young man are, as usual, the staple oftheir conversation. But they have something to say, likewise, of theHarmonic Meeting at the Sol's Arms, where the sound of the pianothrough the partly opened windows jingles out into the court, andwhere Little Swills, after keeping the lovers of harmony in a roarlike a very Yorick, may now be heard taking the gruff line in aconcerted piece and sentimentally adjuring his friends and patrons to"Listen, listen, listen, tew the wa-ter fall!" Mrs. Perkins and Mrs.Piper compare opinions on the subject of the young lady ofprofessional celebrity who assists at the Harmonic Meetings and whohas a space to herself in the manuscript announcement in the window,Mrs. Perkins possessing information that she has been married a yearand a half, though announced as Miss M. Melvilleson, the noted siren,and that her baby is clandestinely conveyed to the Sol's Arms everynight to receive its natural nourishment during the entertainments."Sooner than which, myself," says Mrs. Perkins, "I would get myliving by selling lucifers." Mrs. Piper, as in duty bound, is of thesame opinion, holding that a private station is better than publicapplause, and thanking heaven for her own (and, by implication, Mrs.Perkins') respectability. By this time the pot-boy of the Sol's Armsappearing with her supper-pint well frothed, Mrs. Piper accepts thattankard and retires indoors, first giving a fair good night to Mrs.Perkins, who has had her own pint in her hand ever since it wasfetched from the same hostelry by young Perkins before he was sent tobed. Now there is a sound of putting up shop-shutters in the courtand a smell as of the smoking of pipes; and shooting stars are seenin upper windows, further indicating retirement to rest. Now, too,the policeman begins to push at doors; to try fastenings; to besuspicious of bundles; and to administer his beat, on the hypothesisthat every one is either robbing or being robbed.
It is a close night, though the damp cold is searching too, and thereis a laggard mist a little way up in the air. It is a fine steamingnight to turn the slaughter-houses, the unwholesome trades, thesewerage, bad water, and burial-grounds to account, and give theregistrar of deaths some extra business. It may be something in theair--there is plenty in it--or it may be something in himself that isin fault; but Mr. Weevle, otherwise Jobling, is very ill at ease. Hecomes and goes between his own room and the open street door twentytimes an hour. He has been doing so ever since it fell dark. Sincethe Chancellor shut up his shop, which he did very early to-night,Mr. Weevle has been down and up, and down and up (with a cheap tightvelvet skull-cap on his head, making his whiskers look out of allproportion), oftener than before.
It is no phenomenon that Mr. Snagsby should be ill at ease too, forhe always is so, more or less, under the oppressive influence of thesecret that is upon him. Impelled by the mystery of which he is apartaker and yet in which he is not a sharer, Mr. Snagsby haunts whatseems to be its fountain-head--the rag and bottle shop in the court.It has an irresistible attraction for him. Even now, coming round bythe Sol's Arms with the intention of passing down the court, and outat the Chancery Lane end, and so terminating his unpremeditatedafter-supper stroll of ten minutes' long from his own door and backagain, Mr. Snagsby approaches.
"What, Mr. Weevle?" says the stationer, stopping to speak. "Are YOUthere?"
"Aye!" says Weevle, "Here I am, Mr. Snagsby."
"Airing yourself, as I am doing, before you go to bed?" the stationerinquires.
"Why, there's not much air to be got here; and what there is, is notvery freshening," Weevle answers, glancing up and down the court.
"Very true, sir. Don't you observe," says Mr. Snagsby, pausing tosniff and taste the air a little, "don't you observe, Mr. Weevle,that you're--not to put too fine a point upon it--that you're rathergreasy here, sir?"
"Why, I have noticed myself that there is a queer kind of flavour inthe place to-night," Mr. Weevle rejoins. "I suppose it's chops at theSol's Arms."
"Chops, do you think? Oh! Chops, eh?" Mr. Snagsby sniffs and tastesagain. "Well, sir, I suppose it is. But I should say their cook atthe Sol wanted a little looking after. She has been burning 'em, sir!And I don't think"--Mr. Snagsby sniffs and tastes again and thenspits and wipes his mouth--"I don't think--not to put too fine apoint upon it--that they were quite fresh when they were shown thegridiron."
"That's very likely. It's a tainting sort of weather."
"It IS a tainting sort of weather," says Mr. Snagsby, "and I find itsinking to the spirits."
"By George! I find it gives me the horrors," returns Mr. Weevle.
"Then, you see, you live in a lonesome way, and in a lonesome room,with a black circumstance hanging over it," says Mr. Snagsby, lookingin past the other's shoulder along the dark passage and then fallingback a step to look up at the house. "I couldn't live in that roomalone, as you do, sir. I should get so fidgety and worried of anevening, sometimes, that I should be driven to come to the door andstand here sooner than sit there. But then it's very true that youdidn't see, in your room, what I saw there. That makes a difference."
"I know quite enough about it," returns Tony.
"It's not agreeable, is it?" pursues Mr. Snagsby, coughing his coughof mild persuasion behind his hand. "Mr. Krook ought to consider itin the rent. I hope he does, I am sure."
"I hope he does," says Tony. "But I doubt it."
"You find the rent too high, do you, sir?" returns the stationer."Rents ARE high about here. I don't know how it is exactly, but thelaw seems to put things up in price. Not," adds Mr. Snagsby with hisapologetic cough, "that I mean to say a word against the profession Iget my living by."
Mr. Weevle again glances up and down the court and then looks at thestationer. Mr. Snagsby, blankly catching his eye, looks upward for astar or so and coughs a cough expressive of not exactly seeing hisway out of this conversation.
"It's a curious fact, sir," he observes, slowly rubbing his hands,"that he should have been--"
"Who's he?" interrupts Mr. Weevle.
"The deceased, you know," says Mr. Snagsby, twitching his head andright eyebrow towards the staircase and tapping his acquaintance onthe button.
"Ah, to be sure!" returns the other as if he were not over-fond ofthe subject. "I thought we had done with him."
"I was only going to say it's a curious fact, sir, that he shouldhave come and lived here, and been one of my writers, and then thatyou should come and live here, and be one of my writers too. Whichthere is nothing derogatory, but far from it in the appellation,"says Mr. Snagsby, breaking off with a mistrust that he may haveunpolitely asserted a kind of proprietorship in Mr. Weevle, "becauseI have known writers that have gone into brewers' houses and donereally very respectable indeed. Eminently respectable, sir," adds Mr.Snagsby with a misgiving that he has not improved the matter.
"It's a curious coincidence, as you say," answers Weevle, once moreglancing up and down the court.
"Seems a fate in it, don't there?" suggests the stationer.
"There does."
"Just so," observes the stationer with his confirmatory cough. "Quitea fate in it. Quite a fate. Well, Mr. Weevle, I am afraid I must bidyou good night"--Mr. Snagsby speaks as if it made him desolate to go,though he has been casting about for any means of escape ever sincehe stopped to speak--"my little woman will be looking for me else.Good night, sir!"
If Mr. Snagsby hastens home to save his little woman the trouble oflooking for him, he might set his mind at rest on that score. Hislittle woman has had her eye upon him round the Sol's Arms all thistime and now glides after him with a pocket handkerchief wrapped overher head, honouring Mr. Weevle and his doorway with a searchingglance as she goes past.
"You'll know me again, ma'am, at all events," says Mr. Weevle tohimself; "and I can't compliment you on your appearance, whoever youare, with your head tied up in a bundle. Is this fellow NEVERcoming!"
This fellow approaches as he speaks. Mr. Weevle softly holds up hisfinger, and draws him into the passage, and closes the street door.Then they go upstairs, Mr. Weevle heavily, and Mr. Guppy (for it ishe) very lightly indeed. When they are shut into the back room, theyspeak low.
"I thought you had gone to Jericho at least instead of coming here,"says Tony.
"Why, I said about ten."
"You said about ten," Tony repeats. "Yes, so you did say about ten.But according to my count, it's ten times ten--it's a hundredo'clock. I never had such a night in my life!"
"What has been the matter?"
"That's it!" says Tony. "Nothing has been the matter. But here have Ibeen stewing and fuming in this jolly old crib till I have had thehorrors falling on me as thick as hail. THERE'S a blessed-lookingcandle!" says Tony, pointing to the heavily burning taper on histable with a great cabbage head and a long winding-sheet.
"That's easily improved," Mr. Guppy observes as he takes the snuffersin hand.
"IS it?" returns his friend. "Not so easily as you think. It has beensmouldering like that ever since it was lighted."
"Why, what's the matter with you, Tony?" inquires Mr. Guppy, lookingat him, snuffers in hand, as he sits down with his elbow on thetable.
"William Guppy," replies the other, "I am in the downs. It's thisunbearably dull, suicidal room--and old Boguey downstairs, Isuppose." Mr. Weevle moodily pushes the snuffers-tray from him withhis elbow, leans his head on his hand, puts his feet on the fender,and looks at the fire. Mr. Guppy, observing him, slightly tosses hishead and sits down on the other side of the table in an easyattitude.
"Wasn't that Snagsby talking to you, Tony?"
"Yes, and he--yes, it was Snagsby," said Mr. Weevle, altering theconstruction of his sentence.
"On business?"
"No. No business. He was only sauntering by and stopped to prose."
"I thought it was Snagsby," says Mr. Guppy, "and thought it as wellthat he shouldn't see me, so I waited till he was gone."
"There we go again, William G.!" cried Tony, looking up for aninstant. "So mysterious and secret! By George, if we were going tocommit a murder, we couldn't have more mystery about it!"
Mr. Guppy affects to smile, and with the view of changing theconversation, looks with an admiration, real or pretended, round theroom at the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty, terminating his surveywith the portrait of Lady Dedlock over the mantelshelf, in which sheis represented on a terrace, with a pedestal upon the terrace, and avase upon the pedestal, and her shawl upon the vase, and a prodigiouspiece of fur upon the shawl, and her arm on the prodigious piece offur, and a bracelet on her arm.
"That's very like Lady Dedlock," says Mr. Guppy. "It's a speakinglikeness."
"I wish it was," growls Tony, without changing his position. "Ishould have some fashionable conversation, here, then."
Finding by this time that his friend is not to be wheedled into amore sociable humour, Mr. Guppy puts about upon the ill-used tack andremonstrates with him.
"Tony," says he, "I can make allowances for lowness of spirits, forno man knows what it is when it does come upon a man better than Ido, and no man perhaps has a better right to know it than a man whohas an unrequited image imprinted on his 'eart. But there are boundsto these things when an unoffending party is in question, and I willacknowledge to you, Tony, that I don't think your manner on thepresent occasion is hospitable or quite gentlemanly."
"This is strong language, William Guppy," returns Mr. Weevle.
"Sir, it may be," retorts Mr. William Guppy, "but I feel stronglywhen I use it."
Mr. Weevle admits that he has been wrong and begs Mr. William Guppyto think no more about it. Mr. William Guppy, however, having got theadvantage, cannot quite release it without a little more injuredremonstrance.
"No! Dash it, Tony," says that gentleman, "you really ought to becareful how you wound the feelings of a man who has an unrequitedimage imprinted on his 'eart and who is NOT altogether happy in thosechords which vibrate to the tenderest emotions. You, Tony, possess inyourself all that is calculated to charm the eye and allure thetaste. It is not--happily for you, perhaps, and I may wish that Icould say the same--it is not your character to hover around oneflower. The ole garden is open to you, and your airy pinions carryyou through it. Still, Tony, far be it from me, I am sure, to woundeven your feelings without a cause!"
Tony again entreats that the subject may be no longer pursued, sayingemphatically, "William Guppy, drop it!" Mr. Guppy acquiesces, withthe reply, "I never should have taken it up, Tony, of my own accord."
"And now," says Tony, stirring the fire, "touching this same bundleof letters. Isn't it an extraordinary thing of Krook to haveappointed twelve o'clock to-night to hand 'em over to me?"
"Very. What did he do it for?"
"What does he do anything for? HE don't know. Said to-day was hisbirthday and he'd hand 'em over to-night at twelve o'clock. He'llhave drunk himself blind by that time. He has been at it all day."
"He hasn't forgotten the appointment, I hope?"
"Forgotten? Trust him for that. He never forgets anything. I saw himto-night, about eight--helped him to shut up his shop--and he had gotthe letters then in his hairy cap. He pulled it off and showed 'emme. When the shop was closed, he took them out of his cap, hung hiscap on the chair-back, and stood turning them over before the fire. Iheard him a little while afterwards, through the floor here, humminglike the wind, the only song he knows--about Bibo, and old Charon,and Bibo being drunk when he died, or something or other. He has beenas quiet since as an old rat asleep in his hole."
"And you are to go down at twelve?"
"At twelve. And as I tell you, when you came it seemed to me ahundred."
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy after considering a little with his legscrossed, "he can't read yet, can he?"
"Read! He'll never read. He can make all the letters separately, andhe knows most of them separately when he sees them; he has got onthat much, under me; but he can't put them together. He's too old toacquire the knack of it now--and too drunk."
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs, "how doyou suppose he spelt out that name of Hawdon?"
"He never spelt it out. You know what a curious power of eye he hasand how he has been used to employ himself in copying things by eyealone. He imitated it, evidently from the direction of a letter, andasked me what it meant."
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs again,"should you say that the original was a man's writing or a woman's?"
"A woman's. Fifty to one a lady's--slopes a good deal, and the end ofthe letter 'n,' long and hasty."
Mr. Guppy has been biting his thumb-nail during this dialogue,generally changing the thumb when he has changed the cross leg. As heis going to do so again, he happens to look at his coat-sleeve. Ittakes his attention. He stares at it, aghast.
"Why, Tony, what on earth is going on in this house to-night? Isthere a chimney on fire?"
"Chimney on fire!"
"Ah!" returns Mr. Guppy. "See how the soot's falling. See here, on myarm! See again, on the table here! Confound the stuff, it won't blowoff--smears like black fat!"
They look at one another, and Tony goes listening to the door, and alittle way upstairs, and a little way downstairs. Comes back and saysit's all right and all quiet, and quotes the remark he lately made toMr. Snagsby about their cooking chops at the Sol's Arms.
"And it was then," resumes Mr. Guppy, still glancing with remarkableaversion at the coat-sleeve, as they pursue their conversation beforethe fire, leaning on opposite sides of the table, with their headsvery near together, "that he told you of his having taken the bundleof letters from his lodger's portmanteau?"
"That was the time, sir," answers Tony, faintly adjusting hiswhiskers. "Whereupon I wrote a line to my dear boy, the HonourableWilliam Guppy, informing him of the appointment for to-night andadvising him not to call before, Boguey being a slyboots."
The light vivacious tone of fashionable life which is usually assumedby Mr. Weevle sits so ill upon him to-night that he abandons that andhis whiskers together, and after looking over his shoulder, appearsto yield himself up a prey to the horrors again.
"You are to bring the letters to your room to read and compare, andto get yourself into a position to tell him all about them. That'sthe arrangement, isn't it, Tony?" asks Mr. Guppy, anxiously bitinghis thumb-nail.
"You can't speak too low. Yes. That's what he and I agreed."
"I tell you what, Tony--"
"You can't speak too low," says Tony once more. Mr. Guppy nods hissagacious head, advances it yet closer, and drops into a whisper.
"I tell you what. The first thing to be done is to make anotherpacket like the real one so that if he should ask to see the real onewhile it's in my possession, you can show him the dummy."
"And suppose he detects the dummy as soon as he sees it, which withhis biting screw of an eye is about five hundred times more likelythan not," suggests Tony.
"Then we'll face it out. They don't belong to him, and they neverdid. You found that, and you placed them in my hands--a legal friendof yours--for security. If he forces us to it, they'll be producible,won't they?"
"Ye-es," is Mr. Weevle's reluctant admission.
"Why, Tony," remonstrates his friend, "how you look! You don't doubtWilliam Guppy? You don't suspect any harm?"
"I don't suspect anything more than I know, William," returns theother gravely.
"And what do you know?" urges Mr. Guppy, raising his voice a little;but on his friend's once more warning him, "I tell you, you can'tspeak too low," he repeats his question without any sound at all,forming with his lips only the words, "What do you know?"
"I know three things. First, I know that here we are whispering insecrecy, a pair of conspirators."
"Well!" says Mr. Guppy. "And we had better be that than a pair ofnoodles, which we should be if we were doing anything else, for it'sthe only way of doing what we want to do. Secondly?"
"Secondly, it's not made out to me how it's likely to be profitable,after all."
Mr. Guppy casts up his eyes at the portrait of Lady Dedlock over themantelshelf and replies, "Tony, you are asked to leave that to thehonour of your friend. Besides its being calculated to serve thatfriend in those chords of the human mind which--which need not becalled into agonizing vibration on the present occasion--your friendis no fool. What's that?"
"It's eleven o'clock striking by the bell of Saint Paul's. Listen andyou'll hear all the bells in the city jangling."
Both sit silent, listening to the metal voices, near and distant,resounding from towers of various heights, in tones more various thantheir situations. When these at length cease, all seems moremysterious and quiet than before. One disagreeable result ofwhispering is that it seems to evoke an atmosphere of silence,haunted by the ghosts of sound--strange cracks and tickings, therustling of garments that have no substance in them, and the tread ofdreadful feet that would leave no mark on the sea-sand or the wintersnow. So sensitive the two friends happen to be that the air is fullof these phantoms, and the two look over their shoulders by oneconsent to see that the door is shut.
"Yes, Tony?" says Mr. Guppy, drawing nearer to the fire and bitinghis unsteady thumb-nail. "You were going to say, thirdly?"
"It's far from a pleasant thing to be plotting about a dead man inthe room where he died, especially when you happen to live in it."
"But we are plotting nothing against him, Tony."
"May be not, still I don't like it. Live here by yourself and see howYOU like it."
"As to dead men, Tony," proceeds Mr. Guppy, evading this proposal,"there have been dead men in most rooms."
"I know there have, but in most rooms you let them alone, and--andthey let you alone," Tony answers.
The two look at each other again. Mr. Guppy makes a hurried remark tothe effect that they may be doing the deceased a service, that hehopes so. There is an oppressive blank until Mr. Weevle, by stirringthe fire suddenly, makes Mr. Guppy start as if his heart had beenstirred instead.
"Fah! Here's more of this hateful soot hanging about," says he. "Letus open the window a bit and get a mouthful of air. It's too close."
He raises the sash, and they both rest on the window-sill, half inand half out of the room. The neighbouring houses are too near toadmit of their seeing any sky without craning their necks and lookingup, but lights in frowsy windows here and there, and the rolling ofdistant carriages, and the new expression that there is of the stirof men, they find to be comfortable. Mr. Guppy, noiselessly tappingon the window-sill, resumes his whispering in quite a light-comedytone.
"By the by, Tony, don't forget old Smallweed," meaning the younger ofthat name. "I have not let him into this, you know. That grandfatherof his is too keen by half. It runs in the family."
"I remember," says Tony. "I am up to all that."
"And as to Krook," resumes Mr. Guppy. "Now, do you suppose he reallyhas got hold of any other papers of importance, as he has boasted toyou, since you have been such allies?"
Tony shakes his head. "I don't know. Can't Imagine. If we get throughthis business without rousing his suspicions, I shall be betterinformed, no doubt. How can I know without seeing them, when he don'tknow himself? He is always spelling out words from them, and chalkingthem over the table and the shop-wall, and asking what this is andwhat that is; but his whole stock from beginning to end may easily bethe waste-paper he bought it as, for anything I can say. It's amonomania with him to think he is possessed of documents. He has beengoing to learn to read them this last quarter of a century, I shouldjudge, from what he tells me."
"How did he first come by that idea, though? That's the question,"Mr. Guppy suggests with one eye shut, after a little forensicmeditation. "He may have found papers in something he bought, wherepapers were not supposed to be, and may have got it into his shrewdhead from the manner and place of their concealment that they areworth something."
"Or he may have been taken in, in some pretended bargain. Or he mayhave been muddled altogether by long staring at whatever he HAS got,and by drink, and by hanging about the Lord Chancellor's Court andhearing of documents for ever," returns Mr. Weevle.
Mr. Guppy sitting on the window-sill, nodding his head and balancingall these possibilities in his mind, continues thoughtfully to tapit, and clasp it, and measure it with his hand, until he hastilydraws his hand away.
"What, in the devil's name," he says, "is this! Look at my fingers!"
A thick, yellow liquor defiles them, which is offensive to the touchand sight and more offensive to the smell. A stagnant, sickening oilwith some natural repulsion in it that makes them both shudder.
"What have you been doing here? What have you been pouring out ofwindow?"
"I pouring out of window! Nothing, I swear! Never, since I have beenhere!" cries the lodger.
And yet look here--and look here! When he brings the candle here,from the corner of the window-sill, it slowly drips and creeps awaydown the bricks, here lies in a little thick nauseous pool.
"This is a horrible house," says Mr. Guppy, shutting down the window."Give me some water or I shall cut my hand off."
He so washes, and rubs, and scrubs, and smells, and washes, that hehas not long restored himself with a glass of brandy and stoodsilently before the fire when Saint Paul's bell strikes twelve andall those other bells strike twelve from their towers of variousheights in the dark air, and in their many tones. When all is quietagain, the lodger says, "It's the appointed time at last. Shall Igo?"
Mr. Guppy nods and gives him a "lucky touch" on the back, but notwith the washed hand, though it is his right hand.
He goes downstairs, and Mr. Guppy tries to compose himself before thefire for waiting a long time. But in no more than a minute or two thestairs creak and Tony comes swiftly back.
"Have you got them?"
"Got them! No. The old man's not there."
He has been so horribly frightened in the short interval that histerror seizes the other, who makes a rush at him and asks loudly,"What's the matter?"
"I couldn't make him hear, and I softly opened the door and lookedin. And the burning smell is there--and the soot is there, and theoil is there--and he is not there!" Tony ends this with a groan.
Mr. Guppy takes the light. They go down, more dead than alive, andholding one another, push open the door of the back shop. The cat hasretreated close to it and stands snarling, not at them, at somethingon the ground before the fire. There is a very little fire left inthe grate, but there is a smouldering, suffocating vapour in the roomand a dark, greasy coating on the walls and ceiling. The chairs andtable, and the bottle so rarely absent from the table, all stand asusual. On one chair-back hang the old man's hairy cap and coat.
"Look!" whispers the lodger, pointing his friend's attention to theseobjects with a trembling finger. "I told you so. When I saw him last,he took his cap off, took out the little bundle of old letters, hunghis cap on the back of the chair--his coat was there already, for hehad pulled that off before he went to put the shutters up--and I lefthim turning the letters over in his hand, standing just where thatcrumbled black thing is upon the floor."
Is he hanging somewhere? They look up. No.
"See!" whispers Tony. "At the foot of the same chair there lies adirty bit of thin red cord that they tie up pens with. That wentround the letters. He undid it slowly, leering and laughing at me,before he began to turn them over, and threw it there. I saw itfall."
"What's the matter with the cat?" says Mr. Guppy. "Look at her!"
"Mad, I think. And no wonder in this evil place."
They advance slowly, looking at all these things. The cat remainswhere they found her, still snarling at the something on the groundbefore the fire and between the two chairs. What is it? Hold up thelight.
Here is a small burnt patch of flooring; here is the tinder from alittle bundle of burnt paper, but not so light as usual, seeming tobe steeped in something; and here is--is it the cinder of a smallcharred and broken log of wood sprinkled with white ashes, or is itcoal? Oh, horror, he IS here! And this from which we run away,striking out the light and overturning one another into the street,is all that represents him.
Help, help, help! Come into this house for heaven's sake! Plenty willcome in, but none can help. The Lord Chancellor of that court, trueto his title in his last act, has died the death of all lordchancellors in all courts and of all authorities in all places underall names soever, where false pretences are made, and where injusticeis done. Call the death by any name your Highness will, attributeit to whom you will, or say it might have been prevented how youwill, it is the same death eternally--inborn, inbred, engenderedin the corrupted humours of the vicious body itself, and thatonly--spontaneous combustion, and none other of all the deaths thatcan be died.



CHAPTER XXXIII
Interlopers

Now do those two gentlemen not very neat about the cuffs and buttonswho attended the last coroner's inquest at the Sol's Arms reappear inthe precincts with surprising swiftness (being, in fact, breathlesslyfetched by the active and intelligent beadle), and instituteperquisitions through the court, and dive into the Sol's parlour, andwrite with ravenous little pens on tissue-paper. Now do they notedown, in the watches of the night, how the neighbourhood of ChanceryLane was yesterday, at about midnight, thrown into a state of themost intense agitation and excitement by the following alarming andhorrible discovery. Now do they set forth how it will doubtless beremembered that some time back a painful sensation was created in thepublic mind by a case of mysterious death from opium occurring in thefirst floor of the house occupied as a rag, bottle, and generalmarine store shop, by an eccentric individual of intemperate habits,far advanced in life, named Krook; and how, by a remarkablecoincidence, Krook was examined at the inquest, which it may berecollected was held on that occasion at the Sol's Arms, awell-conducted tavern immediately adjoining the premises in questionon the west side and licensed to a highly respectable landlord, Mr.James George Bogsby. Now do they show (in as many words as possible)how during some hours of yesterday evening a very peculiar smell wasobserved by the inhabitants of the court, in which the tragicaloccurrence which forms the subject of that present accounttranspired; and which odour was at one time so powerful that Mr.Swills, a comic vocalist professionally engaged by Mr. J. G. Bogsby,has himself stated to our reporter that he mentioned to Miss M.Melvilleson, a lady of some pretensions to musical ability, likewiseengaged by Mr. J. G. Bogsby to sing at a series of concerts calledHarmonic Assemblies, or Meetings, which it would appear are held atthe Sol's Arms under Mr. Bogsby's direction pursuant to the Act ofGeorge the Second, that he (Mr. Swills) found his voice seriouslyaffected by the impure state of the atmosphere, his jocose expressionat the time being that he was like an empty post-office, for hehadn't a single note in him. How this account of Mr. Swills isentirely corroborated by two intelligent married females residing inthe same court and known respectively by the names of Mrs. Piper andMrs. Perkins, both of whom observed the foetid effluvia and regardedthem as being emitted from the premises in the occupation of Krook,the unfortunate deceased. All this and a great deal more the twogentlemen who have formed an amicable partnership in the melancholycatastrophe write down on the spot; and the boy population of thecourt (out of bed in a moment) swarm up the shutters of the Sol'sArms parlour, to behold the tops of their heads while they are aboutit.
The whole court, adult as well as boy, is sleepless for that night,and can do nothing but wrap up its many heads, and talk of theill-fated house, and look at it. Miss Flite has been bravely rescuedfrom her chamber, as if it were in flames, and accommodated with abed at the Sol's Arms. The Sol neither turns off its gas nor shutsits door all night, for any kind of public excitement makes good forthe Sol and causes the court to stand in need of comfort. The househas not done so much in the stomachic article of cloves or inbrandy-and-water warm since the inquest. The moment the pot-boy heardwhat had happened, he rolled up his shirt-sleeves tight to hisshoulders and said, "There'll be a run upon us!" In the first outcry,young Piper dashed off for the fire-engines and returned in triumphat a jolting gallop perched up aloft on the Phoenix and holding on tothat fabulous creature with all his might in the midst of helmets andtorches. One helmet remains behind after careful investigation of allchinks and crannies and slowly paces up and down before the house incompany with one of the two policemen who have likewise been left incharge thereof. To this trio everybody in the court possessed ofsixpence has an insatiate desire to exhibit hospitality in a liquidform.
Mr. Weevle and his friend Mr. Guppy are within the bar at the Sol andare worth anything to the Sol that the bar contains if they will onlystay there. "This is not a time," says Mr. Bogsby, "to haggle aboutmoney," though he looks something sharply after it, over the counter;"give your orders, you two gentlemen, and you're welcome to whateveryou put a name to."
Thus entreated, the two gentlemen (Mr. Weevle especially) put namesto so many things that in course of time they find it difficult toput a name to anything quite distinctly, though they still relate toall new-comers some version of the night they have had of it, and ofwhat they said, and what they thought, and what they saw. Meanwhile,one or other of the policemen often flits about the door, and pushingit open a little way at the full length of his arm, looks in fromouter gloom. Not that he has any suspicions, but that he may as wellknow what they are up to in there.
Thus night pursues its leaden course, finding the court still out ofbed through the unwonted hours, still treating and being treated,still conducting itself similarly to a court that has had a littlemoney left it unexpectedly. Thus night at length with slow-retreatingsteps departs, and the lamp-lighter going his rounds, like anexecutioner to a despotic king, strikes off the little heads of firethat have aspired to lessen the darkness. Thus the day cometh,whether or no.
And the day may discern, even with its dim London eye, that the courthas been up all night. Over and above the faces that have fallendrowsily on tables and the heels that lie prone on hard floorsinstead of beds, the brick and mortar physiognomy of the very courtitself looks worn and jaded. And now the neighbourhood, waking up andbeginning to hear of what has happened, comes streaming in, halfdressed, to ask questions; and the two policemen and the helmet (whoare far less impressible externally than the court) have enough to doto keep the door.
"Good gracious, gentlemen!" says Mr. Snagsby, coming up. "What's thisI hear!"
"Why, it's true," returns one of the policemen. "That's what it is.Now move on here, come!"
"Why, good gracious, gentlemen," says Mr. Snagsby, somewhat promptlybacked away, "I was at this door last night betwixt ten and eleveno'clock in conversation with the young man who lodges here."
"Indeed?" returns the policeman. "You will find the young man nextdoor then. Now move on here, some of you."
"Not hurt, I hope?" says Mr. Snagsby.
"Hurt? No. What's to hurt him!"
Mr. Snagsby, wholly unable to answer this or any question in histroubled mind, repairs to the Sol's Arms and finds Mr. Weevlelanguishing over tea and toast with a considerable expression on himof exhausted excitement and exhausted tobacco-smoke.
"And Mr. Guppy likewise!" quoth Mr. Snagsby. "Dear, dear, dear! Whata fate there seems in all this! And my lit--"
Mr. Snagsby's power of speech deserts him in the formation of thewords "my little woman." For to see that injured female walk into theSol's Arms at that hour of the morning and stand before thebeer-engine, with her eyes fixed upon him like an accusing spirit,strikes him dumb.
"My dear," says Mr. Snagsby when his tongue is loosened, "will youtake anything? A little--not to put too fine a point upon it--drop ofshrub?"
"No," says Mrs. Snagsby.
"My love, you know these two gentlemen?"
"Yes!" says Mrs. Snagsby, and in a rigid manner acknowledges theirpresence, still fixing Mr. Snagsby with her eye.
The devoted Mr. Snagsby cannot bear this treatment. He takes Mrs.Snagsby by the hand and leads her aside to an adjacent cask.
"My little woman, why do you look at me in that way? Pray don't doit."
"I can't help my looks," says Mrs. Snagsby, "and if I could Iwouldn't."
Mr. Snagsby, with his cough of meekness, rejoins, "Wouldn't youreally, my dear?" and meditates. Then coughs his cough of trouble andsays, "This is a dreadful mystery, my love!" still fearfullydisconcerted by Mrs. Snagsby's eye.
"It IS," returns Mrs. Snagsby, shaking her head, "a dreadfulmystery."
"My little woman," urges Mr. Snagsby in a piteous manner, "don't forgoodness' sake speak to me with that bitter expression and look at mein that searching way! I beg and entreat of you not to do it. GoodLord, you don't suppose that I would go spontaneously combusting anyperson, my dear?"
"I can't say," returns Mrs. Snagsby.
On a hasty review of his unfortunate position, Mr. Snagsby "can'tsay" either. He is not prepared positively to deny that he may havehad something to do with it. He has had something--he don't knowwhat--to do with so much in this connexion that is mysterious that itis possible he may even be implicated, without knowing it, in thepresent transaction. He faintly wipes his forehead with hishandkerchief and gasps.
"My life," says the unhappy stationer, "would you have any objectionsto mention why, being in general so delicately circumspect in yourconduct, you come into a wine-vaults before breakfast?"
"Why do YOU come here?" inquires Mrs. Snagsby.
"My dear, merely to know the rights of the fatal accident which hashappened to the venerable party who has been--combusted." Mr. Snagsbyhas made a pause to suppress a groan. "I should then have relatedthem to you, my love, over your French roll."
"I dare say you would! You relate everything to me, Mr. Snagsby."
"Every--my lit--"
"I should be glad," says Mrs. Snagsby after contemplating hisincreased confusion with a severe and sinister smile, "if you wouldcome home with me; I think you may be safer there, Mr. Snagsby, thananywhere else."
"My love, I don't know but what I may be, I am sure. I am ready togo."
Mr. Snagsby casts his eye forlornly round the bar, gives Messrs.Weevle and Guppy good morning, assures them of the satisfaction withwhich he sees them uninjured, and accompanies Mrs. Snagsby from theSol's Arms. Before night his doubt whether he may not be responsiblefor some inconceivable part in the catastrophe which is the talk ofthe whole neighbourhood is almost resolved into certainty by Mrs.Snagsby's pertinacity in that fixed gaze. His mental sufferings areso great that he entertains wandering ideas of delivering himself upto justice and requiring to be cleared if innocent and punished withthe utmost rigour of the law if guilty.
Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy, having taken their breakfast, step intoLincoln's Inn to take a little walk about the square and clear asmany of the dark cobwebs out of their brains as a little walk may.
"There can be no more favourable time than the present, Tony," saysMr. Guppy after they have broodingly made out the four sides of thesquare, "for a word or two between us upon a point on which we must,with very little delay, come to an understanding."
"Now, I tell you what, William G.!" returns the other, eyeing hiscompanion with a bloodshot eye. "If it's a point of conspiracy, youneedn't take the trouble to mention it. I have had enough of that,and I ain't going to have any more. We shall have YOU taking firenext or blowing up with a bang."
This supposititious phenomenon is so very disagreeable to Mr. Guppythat his voice quakes as he says in a moral way, "Tony, I should havethought that what we went through last night would have been a lessonto you never to be personal any more as long as you lived." To whichMr. Weevle returns, "William, I should have thought it would havebeen a lesson to YOU never to conspire any more as long as youlived." To which Mr. Guppy says, "Who's conspiring?" To which Mr.Jobling replies, "Why, YOU are!" To which Mr. Guppy retorts, "No, Iam not." To which Mr. Jobling retorts again, "Yes, you are!" To whichMr. Guppy retorts, "Who says so?" To which Mr. Jobling retorts, "Isay so!" To which Mr. Guppy retorts, "Oh, indeed?" To which Mr.Jobling retorts, "Yes, indeed!" And both being now in a heated state,they walk on silently for a while to cool down again.
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy then, "if you heard your friend out instead offlying at him, you wouldn't fall into mistakes. But your temper ishasty and you are not considerate. Possessing in yourself, Tony, allthat is calculated to charm the eye--"
"Oh! Blow the eye!" cries Mr. Weevle, cutting him short. "Say whatyou have got to say!"
Finding his friend in this morose and material condition, Mr. Guppyonly expresses the finer feelings of his soul through the tone ofinjury in which he recommences, "Tony, when I say there is a point onwhich we must come to an understanding pretty soon, I say so quiteapart from any kind of conspiring, however innocent. You know it isprofessionally arranged beforehand in all cases that are tried whatfacts the witnesses are to prove. Is it or is it not desirable thatwe should know what facts we are to prove on the inquiry into thedeath of this unfortunate old mo--gentleman?" (Mr. Guppy was going tosay "mogul," but thinks "gentleman" better suited to thecircumstances.)
"What facts? THE facts."
"The facts bearing on that inquiry. Those are"--Mr. Guppy tells themoff on his fingers--"what we knew of his habits, when you saw himlast, what his condition was then, the discovery that we made, andhow we made it."
"Yes," says Mr. Weevle. "Those are about the facts."
"We made the discovery in consequence of his having, in his eccentricway, an appointment with you at twelve o'clock at night, when youwere to explain some writing to him as you had often done before onaccount of his not being able to read. I, spending the evening withyou, was called down--and so forth. The inquiry being only into thecircumstances touching the death of the deceased, it's not necessaryto go beyond these facts, I suppose you'll agree?"
"No!" returns Mr. Weevle. "I suppose not."
"And this is not a conspiracy, perhaps?" says the injured Guppy.
"No," returns his friend; "if it's nothing worse than this, Iwithdraw the observation."
"Now, Tony," says Mr. Guppy, taking his arm again and walking himslowly on, "I should like to know, in a friendly way, whether youhave yet thought over the many advantages of your continuing to liveat that place?"
"What do you mean?" says Tony, stopping.
"Whether you have yet thought over the many advantages of yourcontinuing to live at that place?" repeats Mr. Guppy, walking him onagain.
"At what place? THAT place?" pointing in the direction of the rag andbottle shop.
Mr. Guppy nods.
"Why, I wouldn't pass another night there for any consideration thatyou could offer me," says Mr. Weevle, haggardly staring.
"Do you mean it though, Tony?"
"Mean it! Do I look as if I mean it? I feel as if I do; I know that,"says Mr. Weevle with a very genuine shudder.
"Then the possibility or probability--for such it must beconsidered--of your never being disturbed in possession of thoseeffects lately belonging to a lone old man who seemed to have norelation in the world, and the certainty of your being able to findout what he really had got stored up there, don't weigh with you atall against last night, Tony, if I understand you?" says Mr. Guppy,biting his thumb with the appetite of vexation.
"Certainly not. Talk in that cool way of a fellow's living there?"cries Mr. Weevle indignantly. "Go and live there yourself."
"Oh! I, Tony!" says Mr. Guppy, soothing him. "I have never livedthere and couldn't get a lodging there now, whereas you have gotone."
"You are welcome to it," rejoins his friend, "and--ugh!--you may makeyourself at home in it."
"Then you really and truly at this point," says Mr. Guppy, "give upthe whole thing, if I understand you, Tony?"
"You never," returns Tony with a most convincing steadfastness, "saida truer word in all your life. I do!"
While they are so conversing, a hackney-coach drives into the square,on the box of which vehicle a very tall hat makes itself manifest tothe public. Inside the coach, and consequently not so manifest to themultitude, though sufficiently so to the two friends, for the coachstops almost at their feet, are the venerable Mr. Smallweed and Mrs.Smallweed, accompanied by their granddaughter Judy.
An air of haste and excitement pervades the party, and as the tallhat (surmounting Mr. Smallweed the younger) alights, Mr. Smallweedthe elder pokes his head out of window and bawls to Mr. Guppy, "Howde do, sir! How de do!"
"What do Chick and his family want here at this time of the morning,I wonder!" says Mr. Guppy, nodding to his familiar.
"My dear sir," cries Grandfather Smallweed, "would you do me afavour? Would you and your friend be so very obleeging as to carry meinto the public-house in the court, while Bart and his sister bringtheir grandmother along? Would you do an old man that good turn,sir?"
Mr. Guppy looks at his friend, repeating inquiringly, "Thepublic-house in the court?" And they prepare to bear the venerableburden to the Sol's Arms.
"There's your fare!" says the patriarch to the coachman with a fiercegrin and shaking his incapable fist at him. "Ask me for a penny more,and I'll have my lawful revenge upon you. My dear young men, be easywith me, if you please. Allow me to catch you round the neck. I won'tsqueeze you tighter than I can help. Oh, Lord! Oh, dear me! Oh, mybones!"
It is well that the Sol is not far off, for Mr. Weevle presents anapoplectic appearance before half the distance is accomplished. Withno worse aggravation of his symptoms, however, than the utterance ofdivers croaking sounds expressive of obstructed respiration, hefulfils his share of the porterage and the benevolent old gentlemanis deposited by his own desire in the parlour of the Sol's Arms.
"Oh, Lord!" gasps Mr. Smallweed, looking about him, breathless, froman arm-chair. "Oh, dear me! Oh, my bones and back! Oh, my aches andpains! Sit down, you dancing, prancing, shambling, scramblingpoll-parrot! Sit down!"
This little apostrophe to Mrs. Smallweed is occasioned by apropensity on the part of that unlucky old lady whenever she findsherself on her feet to amble about and "set" to inanimate objects,accompanying herself with a chattering noise, as in a witch dance. Anervous affection has probably as much to do with thesedemonstrations as any imbecile intention in the poor old woman, buton the present occasion they are so particularly lively in connexionwith the Windsor arm-chair, fellow to that in which Mr. Smallweed isseated, that she only quite desists when her grandchildren have heldher down in it, her lord in the meanwhile bestowing upon her, withgreat volubility, the endearing epithet of "a pig-headed jackdaw,"repeated a surprising number of times.
"My dear sir," Grandfather Smallweed then proceeds, addressing Mr.Guppy, "there has been a calamity here. Have you heard of it, eitherof you?"
"Heard of it, sir! Why, we discovered it."
"You discovered it. You two discovered it! Bart, THEY discovered it!"
The two discoverers stare at the Smallweeds, who return thecompliment.
"My dear friends," whines Grandfather Smallweed, putting out both hishands, "I owe you a thousand thanks for discharging the melancholyoffice of discovering the ashes of Mrs. Smallweed's brother."
"Eh?" says Mr. Guppy.
"Mrs. Smallweed's brother, my dear friend--her only relation. We werenot on terms, which is to be deplored now, but he never WOULD be onterms. He was not fond of us. He was eccentric--he was veryeccentric. Unless he has left a will (which is not at all likely) Ishall take out letters of administration. I have come down to lookafter the property; it must be sealed up, it must be protected. Ihave come down," repeats Grandfather Smallweed, hooking the airtowards him with all his ten fingers at once, "to look after theproperty."
"I think, Small," says the disconsolate Mr. Guppy, "you might havementioned that the old man was your uncle."
"You two were so close about him that I thought you would like me tobe the same," returns that old bird with a secretly glistening eye."Besides, I wasn't proud of him."
"Besides which, it was nothing to you, you know, whether he was ornot," says Judy. Also with a secretly glistening eye.
"He never saw me in his life to know me," observed Small; "I don'tknow why I should introduce HIM, I am sure!"
"No, he never communicated with us, which is to be deplored," the oldgentleman strikes in, "but I have come to look after the property--tolook over the papers, and to look after the property. We shall makegood our title. It is in the hands of my solicitor. Mr. Tulkinghorn,of Lincoln's Inn Fields, over the way there, is so good as to act asmy solicitor; and grass don't grow under HIS feet, I can tell ye.Krook was Mrs. Smallweed's only brother; she had no relation butKrook, and Krook had no relation but Mrs. Smallweed. I am speaking ofyour brother, you brimstone black-beetle, that was seventy-six yearsof age."
Mrs. Smallweed instantly begins to shake her head and pipe up,"Seventy-six pound seven and sevenpence! Seventy-six thousand bags ofmoney! Seventy-six hundred thousand million of parcels ofbank-notes!"
"Will somebody give me a quart pot?" exclaims her exasperatedhusband, looking helplessly about him and finding no missile withinhis reach. "Will somebody obleege me with a spittoon? Will somebodyhand me anything hard and bruising to pelt at her? You hag, you cat,you dog, you brimstone barker!" Here Mr. Smallweed, wrought up to thehighest pitch by his own eloquence, actually throws Judy at hergrandmother in default of anything else, by butting that young virginat the old lady with such force as he can muster and then droppinginto his chair in a heap.
"Shake me up, somebody, if you'll be so good," says the voice fromwithin the faintly struggling bundle into which he has collapsed. "Ihave come to look after the property. Shake me up, and call in thepolice on duty at the next house to be explained to about theproperty. My solicitor will be here presently to protect theproperty. Transportation or the gallows for anybody who shall touchthe property!" As his dutiful grandchildren set him up, panting, andputting him through the usual restorative process of shaking andpunching, he still repeats like an echo, "The--the property! Theproperty! Property!"
Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy look at each other, the former as havingrelinquished the whole affair, the latter with a discomfitedcountenance as having entertained some lingering expectations yet.But there is nothing to be done in opposition to the Smallweedinterest. Mr. Tulkinghorn's clerk comes down from his official pew inthe chambers to mention to the police that Mr. Tulkinghorn isanswerable for its being all correct about the next of kin and thatthe papers and effects will be formally taken possession of in duetime and course. Mr. Smallweed is at once permitted so far to asserthis supremacy as to be carried on a visit of sentiment into the nexthouse and upstairs into Miss Flite's deserted room, where he lookslike a hideous bird of prey newly added to her aviary.
The arrival of this unexpected heir soon taking wind in the courtstill makes good for the Sol and keeps the court upon its mettle.Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins think it hard upon the young man if therereally is no will, and consider that a handsome present ought to bemade him out of the estate. Young Piper and young Perkins, as membersof that restless juvenile circle which is the terror of thefoot-passengers in Chancery Lane, crumble into ashes behind the pumpand under the archway all day long, where wild yells and hootingstake place over their remains. Little Swills and Miss M. Melvillesonenter into affable conversation with their patrons, feeling thatthese unusual occurrences level the barriers between professionalsand non-professionals. Mr. Bogsby puts up "The popular song of KingDeath, with chorus by the whole strength of the company," as thegreat Harmonic feature of the week and announces in the bill that "J.G. B. is induced to do so at a considerable extra expense inconsequence of a wish which has been very generally expressed at thebar by a large body of respectable individuals and in homage to alate melancholy event which has aroused so much sensation." There isone point connected with the deceased upon which the court isparticularly anxious, namely, that the fiction of a full-sized coffinshould be preserved, though there is so little to put in it. Upon theundertaker's stating in the Sol's bar in the course of the day thathe has received orders to construct "a six-footer," the generalsolicitude is much relieved, and it is considered that Mr.Smallweed's conduct does him great honour.
Out of the court, and a long way out of it, there is considerableexcitement too, for men of science and philosophy come to look, andcarriages set down doctors at the corner who arrive with the sameintent, and there is more learned talk about inflammable gases andphosphuretted hydrogen than the court has ever imagined. Some ofthese authorities (of course the wisest) hold with indignation thatthe deceased had no business to die in the alleged manner; and beingreminded by other authorities of a certain inquiry into the evidencefor such deaths reprinted in the sixth volume of the PhilosophicalTransactions; and also of a book not quite unknown on English medicaljurisprudence; and likewise of the Italian case of the CountessCornelia Baudi as set forth in detail by one Bianchini, prebendary ofVerona, who wrote a scholarly work or so and was occasionally heardof in his time as having gleams of reason in him; and also of thetestimony of Messrs. Fodere and Mere, two pestilent Frenchmen whoWOULD investigate the subject; and further, of the corroborativetestimony of Monsieur Le Cat, a rather celebrated French surgeon onceupon a time, who had the unpoliteness to live in a house where such acase occurred and even to write an account of it--still they regardthe late Mr. Krook's obstinacy in going out of the world by any suchby-way as wholly unjustifiable and personally offensive. The less thecourt understands of all this, the more the court likes it, and thegreater enjoyment it has in the stock in trade of the Sol's Arms.Then there comes the artist of a picture newspaper, with a foregroundand figures ready drawn for anything from a wreck on the Cornishcoast to a review in Hyde Park or a meeting in Manchester, and inMrs. Perkins' own room, memorable evermore, he then and there throwsin upon the block Mr. Krook's house, as large as life; in fact,considerably larger, making a very temple of it. Similarly, beingpermitted to look in at the door of the fatal chamber, he depictsthat apartment as three-quarters of a mile long by fifty yards high,at which the court is particularly charmed. All this time the twogentlemen before mentioned pop in and out of every house and assistat the philosophical disputations--go everywhere and listen toeverybody--and yet are always diving into the Sol's parlour andwriting with the ravenous little pens on the tissue-paper.
At last come the coroner and his inquiry, like as before, except thatthe coroner cherishes this case as being out of the common way andtells the gentlemen of the jury, in his private capacity, that "thatwould seem to be an unlucky house next door, gentlemen, a destinedhouse; but so we sometimes find it, and these are mysteries we can'taccount for!" After which the six-footer comes into action and ismuch admired.
In all these proceedings Mr. Guppy has so slight a part, except whenhe gives his evidence, that he is moved on like a private individualand can only haunt the secret house on the outside, where he has themortification of seeing Mr. Smallweed padlocking the door, and ofbitterly knowing himself to be shut out. But before these proceedingsdraw to a close, that is to say, on the night next after thecatastrophe, Mr. Guppy has a thing to say that must be said to LadyDedlock.
For which reason, with a sinking heart and with that hang-dog senseof guilt upon him which dread and watching enfolded in the Sol's Armshave produced, the young man of the name of Guppy presents himself atthe town mansion at about seven o'clock in the evening and requeststo see her ladyship. Mercury replies that she is going out to dinner;don't he see the carriage at the door? Yes, he does see the carriageat the door; but he wants to see my Lady too.
Mercury is disposed, as he will presently declare to afellow-gentleman in waiting, "to pitch into the young man"; but hisinstructions are positive. Therefore he sulkily supposes that theyoung man must come up into the library. There he leaves the youngman in a large room, not over-light, while he makes report of him.
Mr. Guppy looks into the shade in all directions, discoveringeverywhere a certain charred and whitened little heap of coal orwood. Presently he hears a rustling. Is it--? No, it's no ghost, butfair flesh and blood, most brilliantly dressed.
"I have to beg your ladyship's pardon," Mr. Guppy stammers, verydowncast. "This is an inconvenient time--"
"I told you, you could come at any time." She takes a chair, lookingstraight at him as on the last occasion.
"Thank your ladyship. Your ladyship is very affable."
"You can sit down." There is not much affability in her tone.
"I don't know, your ladyship, that it's worth while my sitting downand detaining you, for I--I have not got the letters that I mentionedwhen I had the honour of waiting on your ladyship."
"Have you come merely to say so?"
"Merely to say so, your ladyship." Mr. Guppy besides being depressed,disappointed, and uneasy, is put at a further disadvantage by thesplendour and beauty of her appearance.
She knows its influence perfectly, has studied it too well to miss agrain of its effect on any one. As she looks at him so steadily andcoldly, he not only feels conscious that he has no guide in the leastperception of what is really the complexion of her thoughts, but alsothat he is being every moment, as it were, removed further andfurther from her.
She will not speak, it is plain. So he must.
"In short, your ladyship," says Mr. Guppy like a meanly penitentthief, "the person I was to have had the letters of, has come to asudden end, and--" He stops. Lady Dedlock calmly finishes thesentence.
"And the letters are destroyed with the person?"
Mr. Guppy would say no if he could--as he is unable to hide.
"I believe so, your ladyship."
If he could see the least sparkle of relief in her face now? No, hecould see no such thing, even if that brave outside did not utterlyput him away, and he were not looking beyond it and about it.
He falters an awkward excuse or two for his failure.
"Is this all you have to say?" inquires Lady Dedlock, having heardhim out--or as nearly out as he can stumble.
Mr. Guppy thinks that's all.
"You had better be sure that you wish to say nothing more to me, thisbeing the last time you will have the opportunity."
Mr. Guppy is quite sure. And indeed he has no such wish at present,by any means.
"That is enough. I will dispense with excuses. Good evening to you!"And she rings for Mercury to show the young man of the name of Guppyout.
But in that house, in that same moment, there happens to be an oldman of the name of Tulkinghorn. And that old man, coming with hisquiet footstep to the library, has his hand at that moment on thehandle of the door--comes in--and comes face to face with the youngman as he is leaving the room.
One glance between the old man and the lady, and for an instant theblind that is always down flies up. Suspicion, eager and sharp, looksout. Another instant, close again.
"I beg your pardon, Lady Dedlock. I beg your pardon a thousand times.It is so very unusual to find you here at this hour. I supposed theroom was empty. I beg your pardon!"
"Stay!" She negligently calls him back. "Remain here, I beg. I amgoing out to dinner. I have nothing more to say to this young man!"
The disconcerted young man bows, as he goes out, and cringingly hopesthat Mr. Tulkinghorn of the Fields is well.
"Aye, aye?" says the lawyer, looking at him from under his bentbrows, though he has no need to look again--not he. "From Kenge andCarboy's, surely?"
"Kenge and Carboy's, Mr. Tulkinghorn. Name of Guppy, sir."
"To be sure. Why, thank you, Mr. Guppy, I am very well!"
"Happy to hear it, sir. You can't be too well, sir, for the credit ofthe profession."
"Thank you, Mr. Guppy!"
Mr. Guppy sneaks away. Mr. Tulkinghorn, such a foil in hisold-fashioned rusty black to Lady Dedlock's brightness, hands herdown the staircase to her carriage. He returns rubbing his chin, andrubs it a good deal in the course of the evening.



CHAPTER XXXIV
A Turn of the Screw

"Now, what," says Mr. George, "may this be? Is it blank cartridge orball? A flash in the pan or a shot?"
An open letter is the subject of the trooper's speculations, and itseems to perplex him mightily. He looks at it at arm's length, bringsit close to him, holds it in his right hand, holds it in his lefthand, reads it with his head on this side, with his head on thatside, contracts his eyebrows, elevates them, still cannot satisfyhimself. He smooths it out upon the table with his heavy palm, andthoughtfully walking up and down the gallery, makes a halt before itevery now and then to come upon it with a fresh eye. Even that won'tdo. "Is it," Mr. George still muses, "blank cartridge or ball?"
Phil Squod, with the aid of a brush and paint-pot, is employed in thedistance whitening the targets, softly whistling in quick-march timeand in drum-and-fife manner that he must and will go back again tothe girl he left behind him.
"Phil!" The trooper beckons as he calls him.
Phil approaches in his usual way, sidling off at first as if he weregoing anywhere else and then bearing down upon his commander like abayonet-charge. Certain splashes of white show in high relief uponhis dirty face, and he scrapes his one eyebrow with the handle of thebrush.
"Attention, Phil! Listen to this."
"Steady, commander, steady."
"'Sir. Allow me to remind you (though there is no legal necessity formy doing so, as you are aware) that the bill at two months' datedrawn on yourself by Mr. Matthew Bagnet, and by you accepted, for thesum of ninety-seven pounds four shillings and ninepence, will becomedue to-morrow, when you will please be prepared to take up the sameon presentation. Yours, Joshua Smallweed.' What do you make of that,Phil?"
"Mischief, guv'ner."
"Why?"
"I think," replies Phil after pensively tracing out a cross-wrinklein his forehead with the brush-handle, "that mischeeviousconsequences is always meant when money's asked for."
"Lookye, Phil," says the trooper, sitting on the table. "First andlast, I have paid, I may say, half as much again as this principal ininterest and one thing and another."
Phil intimates by sidling back a pace or two, with a veryunaccountable wrench of his wry face, that he does not regard thetransaction as being made more promising by this incident.
"And lookye further, Phil," says the trooper, staying his prematureconclusions with a wave of his hand. "There has always been anunderstanding that this bill was to be what they call renewed. And ithas been renewed no end of times. What do you say now?"
"I say that I think the times is come to a end at last."
"You do? Humph! I am much of the same mind myself."
"Joshua Smallweed is him that was brought here in a chair?"
"The same."
"Guv'ner," says Phil with exceeding gravity, "he's a leech in hisdispositions, he's a screw and a wice in his actions, a snake in histwistings, and a lobster in his claws."
Having thus expressively uttered his sentiments, Mr. Squod, afterwaiting a little to ascertain if any further remark be expected ofhim, gets back by his usual series of movements to the target he hasin hand and vigorously signifies through his former musical mediumthat he must and he will return to that ideal young lady. George,having folded the letter, walks in that direction.
"There IS a way, commander," says Phil, looking cunningly at him, "ofsettling this."
"Paying the money, I suppose? I wish I could."
Phil shakes his head. "No, guv'ner, no; not so bad as that. There ISa way," says Phil with a highly artistic turn of his brush; "what I'ma-doing at present."
"Whitewashing."
Phil nods.
"A pretty way that would be! Do you know what would become of theBagnets in that case? Do you know they would be ruined to pay off myold scores? YOU'RE a moral character," says the trooper, eyeing himin his large way with no small indignation; "upon my life you are,Phil!"
Phil, on one knee at the target, is in course of protestingearnestly, though not without many allegorical scoops of his brushand smoothings of the white surface round the rim with his thumb,that he had forgotten the Bagnet responsibility and would not so muchas injure a hair of the head of any member of that worthy family whensteps are audible in the long passage without, and a cheerful voiceis heard to wonder whether George is at home. Phil, with a look athis master, hobbles up, saying, "Here's the guv'ner, Mrs. Bagnet!Here he is!" and the old girl herself, accompanied by Mr. Bagnet,appears.
The old girl never appears in walking trim, in any season of theyear, without a grey cloth cloak, coarse and much worn but veryclean, which is, undoubtedly, the identical garment rendered sointeresting to Mr. Bagnet by having made its way home to Europe fromanother quarter of the globe in company with Mrs. Bagnet and anumbrella. The latter faithful appendage is also invariably a part ofthe old girl's presence out of doors. It is of no colour known inthis life and has a corrugated wooden crook for a handle, with ametallic object let into its prow, or beak, resembling a little modelof a fanlight over a street door or one of the oval glasses out of apair of spectacles, which ornamental object has not that tenaciouscapacity of sticking to its post that might be desired in an articlelong associated with the British army. The old girl's umbrella is ofa flabby habit of waist and seems to be in need of stays--anappearance that is possibly referable to its having served through aseries of years at home as a cupboard and on journeys as a carpetbag. She never puts it up, having the greatest reliance on herwell-proved cloak with its capacious hood, but generally uses theinstrument as a wand with which to point out joints of meat orbunches of greens in marketing or to arrest the attention oftradesmen by a friendly poke. Without her market-basket, which is asort of wicker well with two flapping lids, she never stirs abroad.Attended by these her trusty companions, therefore, her honestsunburnt face looking cheerily out of a rough straw bonnet, Mrs.Bagnet now arrives, fresh-coloured and bright, in George's ShootingGallery.
"Well, George, old fellow," says she, "and how do YOU do, thissunshiny morning?"
Giving him a friendly shake of the hand, Mrs. Bagnet draws a longbreath after her walk and sits down to enjoy a rest. Having afaculty, matured on the tops of baggage-waggons and in other suchpositions, of resting easily anywhere, she perches on a rough bench,unties her bonnet-strings, pushes back her bonnet, crosses her arms,and looks perfectly comfortable.
Mr. Bagnet in the meantime has shaken hands with his old comrade andwith Phil, on whom Mrs. Bagnet likewise bestows a good-humoured nodand smile.
"Now, George," said Mrs. Bagnet briskly, "here we are, Lignum andmyself"--she often speaks of her husband by this appellation, onaccount, as it is supposed, of Lignum Vitae having been his oldregimental nickname when they first became acquainted, in complimentto the extreme hardness and toughness of his physiognomy--"justlooked in, we have, to make it all correct as usual about thatsecurity. Give him the new bill to sign, George, and he'll sign itlike a man."
"I was coming to you this morning," observes the trooper reluctantly.
"Yes, we thought you'd come to us this morning, but we turned outearly and left Woolwich, the best of boys, to mind his sisters andcame to you instead--as you see! For Lignum, he's tied so close now,and gets so little exercise, that a walk does him good. But what'sthe matter, George?" asks Mrs. Bagnet, stopping in her cheerful talk."You don't look yourself."
"I am not quite myself," returns the trooper; "I have been a littleput out, Mrs. Bagnet."
Her bright quick eye catches the truth directly. "George!" holding upher forefinger. "Don't tell me there's anything wrong about thatsecurity of Lignum's! Don't do it, George, on account of thechildren!"
The trooper looks at her with a troubled visage.
"George," says Mrs. Bagnet, using both her arms for emphasis andoccasionally bringing down her open hands upon her knees. "If youhave allowed anything wrong to come to that security of Lignum's, andif you have let him in for it, and if you have put us in danger ofbeing sold up--and I see sold up in your face, George, as plain asprint--you have done a shameful action and have deceived us cruelly.I tell you, cruelly, George. There!"
Mr. Bagnet, otherwise as immovable as a pump or a lamp-post, puts hislarge right hand on the top of his bald head as if to defend it froma shower-bath and looks with great uneasiness at Mrs. Bagnet.
"George," says that old girl, "I wonder at you! George, I am ashamedof you! George, I couldn't have believed you would have done it! Ialways knew you to be a rolling stone that gathered no moss, but Inever thought you would have taken away what little moss there wasfor Bagnet and the children to lie upon. You know what ahard-working, steady-going chap he is. You know what Quebec and Maltaand Woolwich are, and I never did think you would, or could, have hadthe heart to serve us so. Oh, George!" Mrs. Bagnet gathers up hercloak to wipe her eyes on in a very genuine manner, "How could you doit?"
Mrs. Bagnet ceasing, Mr. Bagnet removes his hand from his head as ifthe shower-bath were over and looks disconsolately at Mr. George, whohas turned quite white and looks distressfully at the grey cloak andstraw bonnet.
"Mat," says the trooper in a subdued voice, addressing him but stilllooking at his wife, "I am sorry you take it so much to heart,because I do hope it's not so bad as that comes to. I certainly have,this morning, received this letter"--which he reads aloud--"but Ihope it may be set right yet. As to a rolling stone, why, what yousay is true. I AM a rolling stone, and I never rolled in anybody'sway, I fully believe, that I rolled the least good to. But it'simpossible for an old vagabond comrade to like your wife and familybetter than I like 'em, Mat, and I trust you'll look upon me asforgivingly as you can. Don't think I've kept anything from you. Ihaven't had the letter more than a quarter of an hour."
"Old girl," murmurs Mr. Bagnet after a short silence, "will you tellhim my opinion?"
"Oh! Why didn't he marry," Mrs. Bagnet answers, half laughing andhalf crying, "Joe Pouch's widder in North America? Then he wouldn'thave got himself into these troubles."
"The old girl," says Mr. Bagnet, "puts it correct--why didn't you?"
"Well, she has a better husband by this time, I hope," returns thetrooper. "Anyhow, here I stand, this present day, NOT married to JoePouch's widder. What shall I do? You see all I have got about me.It's not mine; it's yours. Give the word, and I'll sell off everymorsel. If I could have hoped it would have brought in nearly the sumwanted, I'd have sold all long ago. Don't believe that I'll leave youor yours in the lurch, Mat. I'd sell myself first. I only wish," saysthe trooper, giving himself a disparaging blow in the chest, "that Iknew of any one who'd buy such a second-hand piece of old stores."
"Old girl," murmurs Mr. Bagnet, "give him another bit of my mind."
"George," says the old girl, "you are not so much to be blamed, onfull consideration, except for ever taking this business without themeans."
"And that was like me!" observes the penitent trooper, shaking hishead. "Like me, I know."
"Silence! The old girl," says Mr. Bagnet, "is correct--in her way ofgiving my opinions--hear me out!"
"That was when you never ought to have asked for the security,George, and when you never ought to have got it, all thingsconsidered. But what's done can't be undone. You are always anhonourable and straightforward fellow, as far as lays in your power,though a little flighty. On the other hand, you can't admit but whatit's natural in us to be anxious with such a thing hanging over ourheads. So forget and forgive all round, George. Come! Forget andforgive all round!"
Mrs. Bagnet, giving him one of her honest hands and giving herhusband the other, Mr. George gives each of them one of his and holdsthem while he speaks.
"I do assure you both, there's nothing I wouldn't do to dischargethis obligation. But whatever I have been able to scrape together hasgone every two months in keeping it up. We have lived plainly enoughhere, Phil and I. But the gallery don't quite do what was expected ofit, and it's not--in short, it's not the mint. It was wrong in me totake it? Well, so it was. But I was in a manner drawn into that step,and I thought it might steady me, and set me up, and you'll try tooverlook my having such expectations, and upon my soul, I am verymuch obliged to you, and very much ashamed of myself." With theseconcluding words, Mr. George gives a shake to each of the hands heholds, and relinquishing them, backs a pace or two in abroad-chested, upright attitude, as if he had made a final confessionand were immediately going to be shot with all military honours.
"George, hear me out!" says Mr. Bagnet, glancing at his wife. "Oldgirl, go on!"
Mr. Bagnet, being in this singular manner heard out, has merely toobserve that the letter must be attended to without any delay, thatit is advisable that George and he should immediately wait on Mr.Smallweed in person, and that the primary object is to save and holdharmless Mr. Bagnet, who had none of the money. Mr. George, entirelyassenting, puts on his hat and prepares to march with Mr. Bagnet tothe enemy's camp.
"Don't you mind a woman's hasty word, George," says Mrs. Bagnet,patting him on the shoulder. "I trust my old Lignum to you, and I amsure you'll bring him through it."
The trooper returns that this is kindly said and that he WILL bringLignum through it somehow. Upon which Mrs. Bagnet, with her cloak,basket, and umbrella, goes home, bright-eyed again, to the rest ofher family, and the comrades sally forth on the hopeful errand ofmollifying Mr. Smallweed.
Whether there are two people in England less likely to comesatisfactorily out of any negotiation with Mr. Smallweed than Mr.George and Mr. Matthew Bagnet may be very reasonably questioned.Also, notwithstanding their martial appearance, broad squareshoulders, and heavy tread, whether there are within the same limitstwo more simple and unaccustomed children in all the Smallweedyaffairs of life. As they proceed with great gravity through thestreets towards the region of Mount Pleasant, Mr. Bagnet, observinghis companion to be thoughtful, considers it a friendly part to referto Mrs. Bagnet's late sally.
"George, you know the old girl--she's as sweet and as mild as milk.But touch her on the children--or myself--and she's off likegunpowder."
"It does her credit, Mat!"
"George," says Mr. Bagnet, looking straight before him, "the oldgirl--can't do anything--that don't do her credit. More or less. Inever say so. Discipline must be maintained."
"She's worth her weight in gold," says the trooper.
"In gold?" says Mr. Bagnet. "I'll tell you what. The old girl'sweight--is twelve stone six. Would I take that weight--in anymetal--for the old girl? No. Why not? Because the old girl's metal isfar more precious--than the preciousest metal. And she's ALL metal!"
"You are right, Mat!"
"When she took me--and accepted of the ring--she 'listed under me andthe children--heart and head, for life. She's that earnest," says Mr.Bagnet, "and true to her colours--that, touch us with a finger--andshe turns out--and stands to her arms. If the old girl fireswide--once in a way--at the call of duty--look over it, George. Forshe's loyal!"
"Why, bless her, Mat," returns the trooper, "I think the higher ofher for it!"
"You are right!" says Mr. Bagnet with the warmest enthusiasm, thoughwithout relaxing the rigidity of a single muscle. "Think as high ofthe old girl--as the rock of Gibraltar--and still you'll be thinkinglow--of such merits. But I never own to it before her. Disciplinemust be maintained."
These encomiums bring them to Mount Pleasant and to GrandfatherSmallweed's house. The door is opened by the perennial Judy, who,having surveyed them from top to toe with no particular favour, butindeed with a malignant sneer, leaves them standing there while sheconsults the oracle as to their admission. The oracle may be inferredto give consent from the circumstance of her returning with the wordson her honey lips that they can come in if they want to it. Thusprivileged, they come in and find Mr. Smallweed with his feet in thedrawer of his chair as if it were a paper foot-bath and Mrs.Smallweed obscured with the cushion like a bird that is not to sing.
"My dear friend," says Grandfather Smallweed with those two leanaffectionate arms of his stretched forth. "How de do? How de do? Whois our friend, my dear friend?"
"Why this," returns George, not able to be very conciliatory atfirst, "is Matthew Bagnet, who has obliged me in that matter of ours,you know."
"Oh! Mr. Bagnet? Surely!" The old man looks at him under his hand.
"Hope you're well, Mr. Bagnet? Fine man, Mr. George! Military air,sir!"
No chairs being offered, Mr. George brings one forward for Bagnet andone for himself. They sit down, Mr. Bagnet as if he had no power ofbending himself, except at the hips, for that purpose.
"Judy," says Mr. Smallweed, "bring the pipe."
"Why, I don't know," Mr. George interposes, "that the young womanneed give herself that trouble, for to tell you the truth, I am notinclined to smoke it to-day."
"Ain't you?" returns the old man. "Judy, bring the pipe."
"The fact is, Mr. Smallweed," proceeds George, "that I find myself inrather an unpleasant state of mind. It appears to me, sir, that yourfriend in the city has been playing tricks."
"Oh, dear no!" says Grandfather Smallweed. "He never does that!"
"Don't he? Well, I am glad to hear it, because I thought it might beHIS doing. This, you know, I am speaking of. This letter."
Grandfather Smallweed smiles in a very ugly way in recognition of theletter.
"What does it mean?" asks Mr. George.
"Judy," says the old man. "Have you got the pipe? Give it to me. Didyou say what does it mean, my good friend?"
"Aye! Now, come, come, you know, Mr. Smallweed," urges the trooper,constraining himself to speak as smoothly and confidentially as hecan, holding the open letter in one hand and resting the broadknuckles of the other on his thigh, "a good lot of money has passedbetween us, and we are face to face at the present moment, and areboth well aware of the understanding there has always been. I amprepared to do the usual thing which I have done regularly and tokeep this matter going. I never got a letter like this from youbefore, and I have been a little put about by it this morning,because here's my friend Matthew Bagnet, who, you know, had none ofthe money--"
"I DON'T know it, you know," says the old man quietly.
"Why, con-found you--it, I mean--I tell you so, don't I?"
"Oh, yes, you tell me so," returns Grandfather Smallweed. "But Idon't know it."
"Well!" says the trooper, swallowing his fire. "I know it."
Mr. Smallweed replies with excellent temper, "Ah! That's quiteanother thing!" And adds, "But it don't matter. Mr. Bagnet'ssituation is all one, whether or no."
The unfortunate George makes a great effort to arrange the affaircomfortably and to propitiate Mr. Smallweed by taking him upon hisown terms.
"That's just what I mean. As you say, Mr. Smallweed, here's MatthewBagnet liable to be fixed whether or no. Now, you see, that makes hisgood lady very uneasy in her mind, and me too, for whereas I'm aharum-scarum sort of a good-for-nought that more kicks than halfpencecome natural to, why he's a steady family man, don't you see? Now,Mr. Smallweed," says the trooper, gaining confidence as he proceedsin his soldierly mode of doing business, "although you and I are goodfriends enough in a certain sort of a way, I am well aware that Ican't ask you to let my friend Bagnet off entirely."
"Oh, dear, you are too modest. You can ASK me anything, Mr. George."(There is an ogreish kind of jocularity in Grandfather Smallweedto-day.)
"And you can refuse, you mean, eh? Or not you so much, perhaps, asyour friend in the city? Ha ha ha!"
"Ha ha ha!" echoes Grandfather Smallweed. In such a very hard mannerand with eyes so particularly green that Mr. Bagnet's natural gravityis much deepened by the contemplation of that venerable man.
"Come!" says the sanguine George. "I am glad to find we can bepleasant, because I want to arrange this pleasantly. Here's my friendBagnet, and here am I. We'll settle the matter on the spot, if youplease, Mr. Smallweed, in the usual way. And you'll ease my friendBagnet's mind, and his family's mind, a good deal if you'll justmention to him what our understanding is."
Here some shrill spectre cries out in a mocking manner, "Oh, goodgracious! Oh!" Unless, indeed, it be the sportive Judy, who is foundto be silent when the startled visitors look round, but whose chinhas received a recent toss, expressive of derision and contempt. Mr.Bagnet's gravity becomes yet more profound.
"But I think you asked me, Mr. George"--old Smallweed, who all thistime has had the pipe in his hand, is the speaker now--"I think youasked me, what did the letter mean?"
"Why, yes, I did," returns the trooper in his off-hand way, "but Idon't care to know particularly, if it's all correct and pleasant."
Mr. Smallweed, purposely balking himself in an aim at the trooper'shead, throws the pipe on the ground and breaks it to pieces.
"That's what it means, my dear friend. I'll smash you. I'll crumbleyou. I'll powder you. Go to the devil!"
The two friends rise and look at one another. Mr. Bagnet's gravityhas now attained its profoundest point.
"Go to the devil!" repeats the old man. "I'll have no more of yourpipe-smokings and swaggerings. What? You're an independent dragoon,too! Go to my lawyer (you remember where; you have been there before)and show your independence now, will you? Come, my dear friend,there's a chance for you. Open the street door, Judy; put theseblusterers out! Call in help if they don't go. Put 'em out!"
He vociferates this so loudly that Mr. Bagnet, laying his hands onthe shoulders of his comrade before the latter can recover from hisamazement, gets him on the outside of the street door, which isinstantly slammed by the triumphant Judy. Utterly confounded, Mr.George awhile stands looking at the knocker. Mr. Bagnet, in a perfectabyss of gravity, walks up and down before the little parlour windowlike a sentry and looks in every time he passes, apparently revolvingsomething in his mind.
"Come, Mat," says Mr. George when he has recovered himself, "we musttry the lawyer. Now, what do you think of this rascal?"
Mr. Bagnet, stopping to take a farewell look into the parlour,replies with one shake of his head directed at the interior, "If myold girl had been here--I'd have told him!" Having so dischargedhimself of the subject of his cogitations, he falls into step andmarches off with the trooper, shoulder to shoulder.
When they present themselves in Lincoln's Inn Fields, Mr. Tulkinghornis engaged and not to be seen. He is not at all willing to see them,for when they have waited a full hour, and the clerk, on his bellbeing rung, takes the opportunity of mentioning as much, he bringsforth no more encouraging message than that Mr. Tulkinghorn hasnothing to say to them and they had better not wait. They do wait,however, with the perseverance of military tactics, and at last thebell rings again and the client in possession comes out of Mr.Tulkinghorn's room.
The client is a handsome old lady, no other than Mrs. Rouncewell,housekeeper at Chesney Wold. She comes out of the sanctuary with afair old-fashioned curtsy and softly shuts the door. She is treatedwith some distinction there, for the clerk steps out of his pew toshow her through the outer office and to let her out. The old lady isthanking him for his attention when she observes the comrades inwaiting.
"I beg your pardon, sir, but I think those gentlemen are military?"
The clerk referring the question to them with his eye, and Mr. Georgenot turning round from the almanac over the fire-place. Mr. Bagnettakes upon himself to reply, "Yes, ma'am. Formerly."
"I thought so. I was sure of it. My heart warms, gentlemen, at thesight of you. It always does at the sight of such. God bless you,gentlemen! You'll excuse an old woman, but I had a son once who wentfor a soldier. A fine handsome youth he was, and good in his boldway, though some people did disparage him to his poor mother. I askyour pardon for troubling you, sir. God bless you, gentlemen!"
"Same to you, ma'am!" returns Mr. Bagnet with right good will.
There is something very touching in the earnestness of the old lady'svoice and in the tremble that goes through her quaint old figure. ButMr. George is so occupied with the almanac over the fire-place(calculating the coming months by it perhaps) that he does not lookround until she has gone away and the door is closed upon her.
"George," Mr. Bagnet gruffly whispers when he does turn from thealmanac at last. "Don't be cast down! 'Why, soldiers, why--should webe melancholy, boys?' Cheer up, my hearty!"
The clerk having now again gone in to say that they are still thereand Mr. Tulkinghorn being heard to return with some irascibility,"Let 'em come in then!" they pass into the great room with thepainted ceiling and find him standing before the fire.
"Now, you men, what do you want? Sergeant, I told you the last time Isaw you that I don't desire your company here."
Sergeant replies--dashed within the last few minutes as to his usualmanner of speech, and even as to his usual carriage--that he hasreceived this letter, has been to Mr. Smallweed about it, and hasbeen referred there.
"I have nothing to say to you," rejoins Mr. Tulkinghorn. "If you getinto debt, you must pay your debts or take the consequences. You haveno occasion to come here to learn that, I suppose?"
Sergeant is sorry to say that he is not prepared with the money.
"Very well! Then the other man--this man, if this is he--must pay itfor you."
Sergeant is sorry to add that the other man is not prepared with themoney either.
"Very well! Then you must pay it between you or you must both be suedfor it and both suffer. You have had the money and must refund it.You are not to pocket other people's pounds, shillings, and pence andescape scot-free."
The lawyer sits down in his easy-chair and stirs the fire. Mr. Georgehopes he will have the goodness to--"I tell you, sergeant, I havenothing to say to you. I don't like your associates and don't wantyou here. This matter is not at all in my course of practice and isnot in my office. Mr. Smallweed is good enough to offer these affairsto me, but they are not in my way. You must go to Melchisedech's inClifford's Inn."
"I must make an apology to you, sir," says Mr. George, "for pressingmyself upon you with so little encouragement--which is almost asunpleasant to me as it can be to you--but would you let me say aprivate word to you?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn rises with his hands in his pockets and walks intoone of the window recesses. "Now! I have no time to waste." In themidst of his perfect assumption of indifference, he directs a sharplook at the trooper, taking care to stand with his own back to thelight and to have the other with his face towards it.
"Well, sir," says Mr. George, "this man with me is the other partyimplicated in this unfortunate affair--nominally, only nominally--andmy sole object is to prevent his getting into trouble on my account.He is a most respectable man with a wife and family, formerly in theRoyal Artillery--"
"My friend, I don't care a pinch of snuff for the whole RoyalArtillery establishment--officers, men, tumbrils, waggons, horses,guns, and ammunition."
"'Tis likely, sir. But I care a good deal for Bagnet and his wife andfamily being injured on my account. And if I could bring them throughthis matter, I should have no help for it but to give up without anyother consideration what you wanted of me the other day."
"Have you got it here?"
"I have got it here, sir."
"Sergeant," the lawyer proceeds in his dry passionless manner, farmore hopeless in the dealing with than any amount of vehemence, "makeup your mind while I speak to you, for this is final. After I havefinished speaking I have closed the subject, and I won't re-open it.Understand that. You can leave here, for a few days, what you say youhave brought here if you choose; you can take it away at once if youchoose. In case you choose to leave it here, I can do this for you--Ican replace this matter on its old footing, and I can go so farbesides as to give you a written undertaking that this man Bagnetshall never be troubled in any way until you have been proceededagainst to the utmost, that your means shall be exhausted before thecreditor looks to his. This is in fact all but freeing him. Have youdecided?"
The trooper puts his hand into his breast and answers with a longbreath, "I must do it, sir."
So Mr. Tulkinghorn, putting on his spectacles, sits down and writesthe undertaking, which he slowly reads and explains to Bagnet, whohas all this time been staring at the ceiling and who puts his handon his bald head again, under this new verbal shower-bath, and seemsexceedingly in need of the old girl through whom to express hissentiments. The trooper then takes from his breast-pocket a foldedpaper, which he lays with an unwilling hand at the lawyer's elbow."'Tis only a letter of instructions, sir. The last I ever had fromhim."
Look at a millstone, Mr. George, for some change in its expression,and you will find it quite as soon as in the face of Mr. Tulkinghornwhen he opens and reads the letter! He refolds it and lays it in hisdesk with a countenance as unperturbable as death.
Nor has he anything more to say or do but to nod once in the samefrigid and discourteous manner and to say briefly, "You can go. Showthese men out, there!" Being shown out, they repair to Mr. Bagnet'sresidence to dine.
Boiled beef and greens constitute the day's variety on the formerrepast of boiled pork and greens, and Mrs. Bagnet serves out the mealin the same way and seasons it with the best of temper, being thatrare sort of old girl that she receives Good to her arms without ahint that it might be Better and catches light from any little spotof darkness near her. The spot on this occasion is the darkened browof Mr. George; he is unusually thoughtful and depressed. At firstMrs. Bagnet trusts to the combined endearments of Quebec and Malta torestore him, but finding those young ladies sensible that theirexisting Bluffy is not the Bluffy of their usual frolicsomeacquaintance, she winks off the light infantry and leaves him todeploy at leisure on the open ground of the domestic hearth.
But he does not. He remains in close order, clouded and depressed.During the lengthy cleaning up and pattening process, when he and Mr.Bagnet are supplied with their pipes, he is no better than he was atdinner. He forgets to smoke, looks at the fire and ponders, lets hispipe out, fills the breast of Mr. Bagnet with perturbation and dismayby showing that he has no enjoyment of tobacco.
Therefore when Mrs. Bagnet at last appears, rosy from theinvigorating pail, and sits down to her work, Mr. Bagnet growls, "Oldgirl!" and winks monitions to her to find out what's the matter.
"Why, George!" says Mrs. Bagnet, quietly threading her needle. "Howlow you are!"
"Am I? Not good company? Well, I am afraid I am not."
"He ain't at all like Bluffy, mother!" cries little Malta.
"Because he ain't well, I think, mother," adds Quebec.
"Sure that's a bad sign not to be like Bluffy, too!" returns thetrooper, kissing the young damsels. "But it's true," with a sigh,"true, I am afraid. These little ones are always right!"
"George," says Mrs. Bagnet, working busily, "if I thought you crossenough to think of anything that a shrill old soldier's wife--whocould have bitten her tongue off afterwards and ought to have done italmost--said this morning, I don't know what I shouldn't say to younow."
"My kind soul of a darling," returns the trooper. "Not a morsel ofit."
"Because really and truly, George, what I said and meant to say wasthat I trusted Lignum to you and was sure you'd bring him through it.And you HAVE brought him through it, noble!"
"Thankee, my dear!" says George. "I am glad of your good opinion."
In giving Mrs. Bagnet's hand, with her work in it, a friendlyshake--for she took her seat beside him--the trooper's attention isattracted to her face. After looking at it for a little while as sheplies her needle, he looks to young Woolwich, sitting on his stool inthe corner, and beckons that fifer to him.
"See there, my boy," says George, very gently smoothing the mother'shair with his hand, "there's a good loving forehead for you! Allbright with love of you, my boy. A little touched by the sun and theweather through following your father about and taking care of you,but as fresh and wholesome as a ripe apple on a tree."
Mr. Bagnet's face expresses, so far as in its wooden material lies,the highest approbation and acquiescence.
"The time will come, my boy," pursues the trooper, "when this hair ofyour mother's will be grey, and this forehead all crossed andre-crossed with wrinkles, and a fine old lady she'll be then. Takecare, while you are young, that you can think in those days, 'I neverwhitened a hair of her dear head--I never marked a sorrowful line inher face!' For of all the many things that you can think of when youare a man, you had better have THAT by you, Woolwich!"
Mr. George concludes by rising from his chair, seating the boy besidehis mother in it, and saying, with something of a hurry about him,that he'll smoke his pipe in the street a bit.



CHAPTER XXXV
Esther's Narrative

I lay ill through several weeks, and the usual tenor of my lifebecame like an old remembrance. But this was not the effect of timeso much as of the change in all my habits made by the helplessnessand inaction of a sick-room. Before I had been confined to it manydays, everything else seemed to have retired into a remote distancewhere there was little or no separation between the various stages ofmy life which had been really divided by years. In falling ill, Iseemed to have crossed a dark lake and to have left all myexperiences, mingled together by the great distance, on the healthyshore.
My housekeeping duties, though at first it caused me great anxiety tothink that they were unperformed, were soon as far off as the oldestof the old duties at Greenleaf or the summer afternoons when I wenthome from school with my portfolio under my arm, and my childishshadow at my side, to my godmother's house. I had never known beforehow short life really was and into how small a space the mind couldput it.
While I was very ill, the way in which these divisions of time becameconfused with one another distressed my mind exceedingly. At once achild, an elder girl, and the little woman I had been so happy as, Iwas not only oppressed by cares and difficulties adapted to eachstation, but by the great perplexity of endlessly trying to reconcilethem. I suppose that few who have not been in such a condition canquite understand what I mean or what painful unrest arose from thissource.
For the same reason I am almost afraid to hint at that time in mydisorder--it seemed one long night, but I believe there were bothnights and days in it--when I laboured up colossal staircases, everstriving to reach the top, and ever turned, as I have seen a worm ina garden path, by some obstruction, and labouring again. I knewperfectly at intervals, and I think vaguely at most times, that I wasin my bed; and I talked with Charley, and felt her touch, and knewher very well; yet I would find myself complaining, "Oh, more ofthese never-ending stairs, Charley--more and more--piled up to thesky', I think!" and labouring on again.
Dare I hint at that worse time when, strung together somewhere ingreat black space, there was a flaming necklace, or ring, or starrycircle of some kind, of which I was one of the beads! And when myonly prayer was to be taken off from the rest and when it was suchinexplicable agony and misery to be a part of the dreadful thing?
Perhaps the less I say of these sick experiences, the less tediousand the more intelligible I shall be. I do not recall them to makeothers unhappy or because I am now the least unhappy in rememberingthem. It may be that if we knew more of such strange afflictions wemight be the better able to alleviate their intensity.
The repose that succeeded, the long delicious sleep, the blissfulrest, when in my weakness I was too calm to have any care for myselfand could have heard (or so I think now) that I was dying, with noother emotion than with a pitying love for those I left behind--thisstate can be perhaps more widely understood. I was in this state whenI first shrunk from the light as it twinkled on me once more, andknew with a boundless joy for which no words are rapturous enoughthat I should see again.
I had heard my Ada crying at the door, day and night; I had heard hercalling to me that I was cruel and did not love her; I had heard herpraying and imploring to be let in to nurse and comfort me and toleave my bedside no more; but I had only said, when I could speak,"Never, my sweet girl, never!" and I had over and over again remindedCharley that she was to keep my darling from the room whether I livedor died. Charley had been true to me in that time of need, and withher little hand and her great heart had kept the door fast.
But now, my sight strengthening and the glorious light coming everyday more fully and brightly on me, I could read the letters that mydear wrote to me every morning and evening and could put them to mylips and lay my cheek upon them with no fear of hurting her. I couldsee my little maid, so tender and so careful, going about the tworooms setting everything in order and speaking cheerfully to Ada fromthe open window again. I could understand the stillness in the houseand the thoughtfulness it expressed on the part of all those who hadalways been so good to me. I could weep in the exquisite felicity ofmy heart and be as happy in my weakness as ever I had been in mystrength.
By and by my strength began to be restored. Instead of lying, with sostrange a calmness, watching what was done for me, as if it were donefor some one else whom I was quietly sorry for, I helped it a little,and so on to a little more and much more, until I became useful tomyself, and interested, and attached to life again.
How well I remember the pleasant afternoon when I was raised in bedwith pillows for the first time to enjoy a great tea-drinking withCharley! The little creature--sent into the world, surely, tominister to the weak and sick--was so happy, and so busy, and stoppedso often in her preparations to lay her head upon my bosom, andfondle me, and cry with joyful tears she was so glad, she was soglad, that I was obliged to say, "Charley, if you go on in this way,I must lie down again, my darling, for I am weaker than I thought Iwas!" So Charley became as quiet as a mouse and took her bright facehere and there across and across the two rooms, out of the shade intothe divine sunshine, and out of the sunshine into the shade, while Iwatched her peacefully. When all her preparations were concluded andthe pretty tea-table with its little delicacies to tempt me, and itswhite cloth, and its flowers, and everything so lovingly andbeautifully arranged for me by Ada downstairs, was ready at thebedside, I felt sure I was steady enough to say something to Charleythat was not new to my thoughts.
First I complimented Charley on the room, and indeed it was so freshand airy, so spotless and neat, that I could scarce believe I hadbeen lying there so long. This delighted Charley, and her face wasbrighter than before.
"Yet, Charley," said I, looking round, "I miss something, surely,that I am accustomed to?"
Poor little Charley looked round too and pretended to shake her headas if there were nothing absent.
"Are the pictures all as they used to be?" I asked her.
"Every one of them, miss," said Charley.
"And the furniture, Charley?"
"Except where I have moved it about to make more room, miss."
"And yet," said I, "I miss some familiar object. Ah, I know what itis, Charley! It's the looking-glass."
Charley got up from the table, making as if she had forgottensomething, and went into the next room; and I heard her sob there.
I had thought of this very often. I was now certain of it. I couldthank God that it was not a shock to me now. I called Charley back,and when she came--at first pretending to smile, but as she drewnearer to me, looking grieved--I took her in my arms and said, "Itmatters very little, Charley. I hope I can do without my old facevery well."
I was presently so far advanced as to be able to sit up in a greatchair and even giddily to walk into the adjoining room, leaning onCharley. The mirror was gone from its usual place in that room too,but what I had to bear was none the harder to bear for that.
My guardian had throughout been earnest to visit me, and there wasnow no good reason why I should deny myself that happiness. He cameone morning, and when he first came in, could only hold me in hisembrace and say, "My dear, dear girl!" I had long known--who couldknow better?--what a deep fountain of affection and generosity hisheart was; and was it not worth my trivial suffering and change tofill such a place in it? "Oh, yes!" I thought. "He has seen me, andhe loves me better than he did; he has seen me and is even fonder ofme than he was before; and what have I to mourn for!"
He sat down by me on the sofa, supporting me with his arm. For alittle while he sat with his hand over his face, but when he removedit, fell into his usual manner. There never can have been, therenever can be, a pleasanter manner.
"My little woman," said he, "what a sad time this has been. Such aninflexible little woman, too, through all!"
"Only for the best, guardian," said I.
"For the best?" he repeated tenderly. "Of course, for the best. Buthere have Ada and I been perfectly forlorn and miserable; here hasyour friend Caddy been coming and going late and early; here hasevery one about the house been utterly lost and dejected; here haseven poor Rick been writing--to ME too--in his anxiety for you!"
I had read of Caddy in Ada's letters, but not of Richard. I told himso.
"Why, no, my dear," he replied. "I have thought it better not tomention it to her."
"And you speak of his writing to YOU," said I, repeating hisemphasis. "As if it were not natural for him to do so, guardian; asif he could write to a better friend!"
"He thinks he could, my love," returned my guardian, "and to many abetter. The truth is, he wrote to me under a sort of protest whileunable to write to you with any hope of an answer--wrote coldly,haughtily, distantly, resentfully. Well, dearest little woman, wemust look forbearingly on it. He is not to blame. Jarndyce andJarndyce has warped him out of himself and perverted me in his eyes.I have known it do as bad deeds, and worse, many a time. If twoangels could be concerned in it, I believe it would change theirnature."
"It has not changed yours, guardian."
"Oh, yes, it has, my dear," he said laughingly. "It has made thesouth wind easterly, I don't know how often. Rick mistrusts andsuspects me--goes to lawyers, and is taught to mistrust and suspectme. Hears I have conflicting interests, claims clashing against hisand what not. Whereas, heaven knows that if I could get out of themountains of wiglomeration on which my unfortunate name has been solong bestowed (which I can't) or could level them by the extinctionof my own original right (which I can't either, and no human powerever can, anyhow, I believe, to such a pass have we got), I would doit this hour. I would rather restore to poor Rick his proper naturethan be endowed with all the money that dead suitors, broken, heartand soul, upon the wheel of Chancery, have left unclaimed with theAccountant-General--and that's money enough, my dear, to be cast intoa pyramid, in memory of Chancery's transcendent wickedness."
"IS it possible, guardian," I asked, amazed, "that Richard can besuspicious of you?"
"Ah, my love, my love," he said, "it is in the subtle poison of suchabuses to breed such diseases. His blood is infected, and objectslose their natural aspects in his sight. It is not HIS fault."
"But it is a terrible misfortune, guardian."
"It is a terrible misfortune, little woman, to be ever drawn withinthe influences of Jarndyce and Jarndyce. I know none greater. Bylittle and little he has been induced to trust in that rotten reed,and it communicates some portion of its rottenness to everythingaround him. But again I say with all my soul, we must be patient withpoor Rick and not blame him. What a troop of fine fresh hearts likehis have I seen in my time turned by the same means!"
I could not help expressing something of my wonder and regret thathis benevolent, disinterested intentions had prospered so little.
"We must not say so, Dame Durden," he cheerfully replied; "Ada is thehappier, I hope, and that is much. I did think that I and both theseyoung creatures might be friends instead of distrustful foes and thatwe might so far counter-act the suit and prove too strong for it. Butit was too much to expect. Jarndyce and Jarndyce was the curtain ofRick's cradle."
"But, guardian, may we not hope that a little experience will teachhim what a false and wretched thing it is?"
"We WILL hope so, my Esther," said Mr. Jarndyce, "and that it may notteach him so too late. In any case we must not be hard on him. Thereare not many grown and matured men living while we speak, good mentoo, who if they were thrown into this same court as suitors wouldnot be vitally changed and depreciated within three years--withintwo--within one. How can we stand amazed at poor Rick? A young man sounfortunate," here he fell into a lower tone, as if he were thinkingaloud, "cannot at first believe (who could?) that Chancery is what itis. He looks to it, flushed and fitfully, to do something with hisinterests and bring them to some settlement. It procrastinates,disappoints, tries, tortures him; wears out his sanguine hopes andpatience, thread by thread; but he still looks to it, and hankersafter it, and finds his whole world treacherous and hollow. Well,well, well! Enough of this, my dear!"
He had supported me, as at first, all this time, and his tendernesswas so precious to me that I leaned my head upon his shoulder andloved him as if he had been my father. I resolved in my own mind inthis little pause, by some means, to see Richard when I grew strongand try to set him right.
"There are better subjects than these," said my guardian, "for such ajoyful time as the time of our dear girl's recovery. And I had acommission to broach one of them as soon as I should begin to talk.When shall Ada come to see you, my love?"
I had been thinking of that too. A little in connexion with theabsent mirrors, but not much, for I knew my loving girl would bechanged by no change in my looks.
"Dear guardian," said I, "as I have shut her out so long--thoughindeed, indeed, she is like the light to me--"
"I know it well, Dame Durden, well."
He was so good, his touch expressed such endearing compassion andaffection, and the tone of his voice carried such comfort into myheart that I stopped for a little while, quite unable to go on. "Yes,yes, you are tired," said he. "Rest a little."
"As I have kept Ada out so long," I began afresh after a short while,"I think I should like to have my own way a little longer, guardian.It would be best to be away from here before I see her. If Charleyand I were to go to some country lodging as soon as I can move, andif I had a week there in which to grow stronger and to be revived bythe sweet air and to look forward to the happiness of having Ada withme again, I think it would be better for us."
I hope it was not a poor thing in me to wish to be a little more usedto my altered self before I met the eyes of the dear girl I longed soardently to see, but it is the truth. I did. He understood me, I wassure; but I was not afraid of that. If it were a poor thing, I knewhe would pass it over.
"Our spoilt little woman," said my guardian, "shall have her own wayeven in her inflexibility, though at the price, I know, of tearsdownstairs. And see here! Here is Boythorn, heart of chivalry,breathing such ferocious vows as never were breathed on paper before,that if you don't go and occupy his whole house, he having alreadyturned out of it expressly for that purpose, by heaven and by earthhe'll pull it down and not leave one brick standing on another!"
And my guardian put a letter in my hand, without any ordinarybeginning such as "My dear Jarndyce," but rushing at once into thewords, "I swear if Miss Summerson do not come down and takepossession of my house, which I vacate for her this day at oneo'clock, P.M.," and then with the utmost seriousness, and in the mostemphatic terms, going on to make the extraordinary declaration he hadquoted. We did not appreciate the writer the less for laughingheartily over it, and we settled that I should send him a letter ofthanks on the morrow and accept his offer. It was a most agreeableone to me, for all the places I could have thought of, I should haveliked to go to none so well as Chesney Wold.
"Now, little housewife," said my guardian, looking at his watch, "Iwas strictly timed before I came upstairs, for you must not be tiredtoo soon; and my time has waned away to the last minute. I have oneother petition. Little Miss Flite, hearing a rumour that you wereill, made nothing of walking down here--twenty miles, poor soul, in apair of dancing shoes--to inquire. It was heaven's mercy we were athome, or she would have walked back again."
The old conspiracy to make me happy! Everybody seemed to be in it!
"Now, pet," said my guardian, "if it would not be irksome to you toadmit the harmless little creature one afternoon before you saveBoythorn's otherwise devoted house from demolition, I believe youwould make her prouder and better pleased with herself than I--thoughmy eminent name is Jarndyce--could do in a lifetime."
I have no doubt he knew there would be something in the simple imageof the poor afflicted creature that would fall like a gentle lessonon my mind at that time. I felt it as he spoke to me. I could nottell him heartily enough how ready I was to receive her. I had alwayspitied her, never so much as now. I had always been glad of my littlepower to soothe her under her calamity, but never, never, half soglad before.
We arranged a time for Miss Flite to come out by the coach and sharemy early dinner. When my guardian left me, I turned my face away uponmy couch and prayed to be forgiven if I, surrounded by suchblessings, had magnified to myself the little trial that I had toundergo. The childish prayer of that old birthday when I had aspiredto be industrious, contented, and true-hearted and to do good to someone and win some love to myself if I could came back into my mindwith a reproachful sense of all the happiness I had since enjoyed andall the affectionate hearts that had been turned towards me. If Iwere weak now, what had I profited by those mercies? I repeated theold childish prayer in its old childish words and found that its oldpeace had not departed from it.
My guardian now came every day. In a week or so more I could walkabout our rooms and hold long talks with Ada from behind thewindow-curtain. Yet I never saw her, for I had not as yet the courageto look at the dear face, though I could have done so easily withouther seeing me.
On the appointed day Miss Flite arrived. The poor little creature raninto my room quite forgetful of her usual dignity, and crying fromher very heart of hearts, "My dear Fitz Jarndyce!" fell upon my neckand kissed me twenty times.
"Dear me!" said she, putting her hand into her reticule, "I havenothing here but documents, my dear Fitz Jarndyce; I must borrow apocket handkerchief."
Charley gave her one, and the good creature certainly made use of it,for she held it to her eyes with both hands and sat so, sheddingtears for the next ten minutes.
"With pleasure, my dear Fitz Jarndyce," she was careful to explain."Not the least pain. Pleasure to see you well again. Pleasure athaving the honour of being admitted to see you. I am so much fonderof you, my love, than of the Chancellor. Though I DO attend courtregularly. By the by, my dear, mentioning pocket handkerchiefs--"
Miss Flite here looked at Charley, who had been to meet her at theplace where the coach stopped. Charley glanced at me and lookedunwilling to pursue the suggestion.
"Ve-ry right!" said Miss Flite, "Ve-ry correct. Truly! Highlyindiscreet of me to mention it; but my dear Miss Fitz Jarndyce, I amafraid I am at times (between ourselves, you wouldn't think it) alittle--rambling you know," said Miss Flite, touching her forehead."Nothing more."
"What were you going to tell me?" said I, smiling, for I saw shewanted to go on. "You have roused my curiosity, and now you mustgratify it."
Miss Flite looked at Charley for advice in this important crisis, whosaid, "If you please, ma'am, you had better tell then," and thereingratified Miss Flite beyond measure.
"So sagacious, our young friend," said she to me in her mysteriousway. "Diminutive. But ve-ry sagacious! Well, my dear, it's a prettyanecdote. Nothing more. Still I think it charming. Who should followus down the road from the coach, my dear, but a poor person in a veryungenteel bonnet--"
"Jenny, if you please, miss," said Charley.
"Just so!" Miss Flite acquiesced with the greatest suavity. "Jenny.Ye-es! And what does she tell our young friend but that there hasbeen a lady with a veil inquiring at her cottage after my dear FitzJarndyce's health and taking a handkerchief away with her as a littlekeepsake merely because it was my amiable Fitz Jarndyce's! Now, youknow, so very prepossessing in the lady with the veil!"
"If you please, miss," said Charley, to whom I looked in someastonishment, "Jenny says that when her baby died, you left ahandkerchief there, and that she put it away and kept it with thebaby's little things. I think, if you please, partly because it wasyours, miss, and partly because it had covered the baby."
"Diminutive," whispered Miss Flite, making a variety of motions abouther own forehead to express intellect in Charley. "But exceedinglysagacious! And so dear! My love, she's clearer than any counsel Iever heard!"
"Yes, Charley," I returned. "I remember it. Well?"
"Well, miss," said Charley, "and that's the handkerchief the ladytook. And Jenny wants you to know that she wouldn't have made awaywith it herself for a heap of money but that the lady took it andleft some money instead. Jenny don't know her at all, if you please,miss!"
"Why, who can she be?" said I.
"My love," Miss Flite suggested, advancing her lips to my ear withher most mysterious look, "in MY opinion--don't mention this to ourdiminutive friend--she's the Lord Chancellor's wife. He's married,you know. And I understand she leads him a terrible life. Throws hislordship's papers into the fire, my dear, if he won't pay thejeweller!"
I did not think very much about this lady then, for I had animpression that it might be Caddy. Besides, my attention was divertedby my visitor, who was cold after her ride and looked hungry and who,our dinner being brought in, required some little assistance inarraying herself with great satisfaction in a pitiable old scarf anda much-worn and often-mended pair of gloves, which she had broughtdown in a paper parcel. I had to preside, too, over theentertainment, consisting of a dish of fish, a roast fowl, asweetbread, vegetables, pudding, and Madeira; and it was so pleasantto see how she enjoyed it, and with what state and ceremony she didhonour to it, that I was soon thinking of nothing else.
When we had finished and had our little dessert before us,embellished by the hands of my dear, who would yield thesuperintendence of everything prepared for me to no one, Miss Flitewas so very chatty and happy that I thought I would lead her to herown history, as she was always pleased to talk about herself. I beganby saying "You have attended on the Lord Chancellor many years, MissFlite?"
"Oh, many, many, many years, my dear. But I expect a judgment.Shortly."
There was an anxiety even in her hopefulness that made me doubtful ifI had done right in approaching the subject. I thought I would say nomore about it.
"My father expected a judgment," said Miss Flite. "My brother. Mysister. They all expected a judgment. The same that I expect."
"They are all--"
"Ye-es. Dead of course, my dear," said she.
As I saw she would go on, I thought it best to try to be serviceableto her by meeting the theme rather than avoiding it.
"Would it not be wiser," said I, "to expect this judgment no more?"
"Why, my dear," she answered promptly, "of course it would!"
"And to attend the court no more?"
"Equally of course," said she. "Very wearing to be always inexpectation of what never comes, my dear Fitz Jarndyce! Wearing, Iassure you, to the bone!"
She slightly showed me her arm, and it was fearfully thin indeed.
"But, my dear," she went on in her mysterious way, "there's adreadful attraction in the place. Hush! Don't mention it to ourdiminutive friend when she comes in. Or it may frighten her. Withgood reason. There's a cruel attraction in the place. You CAN'T leaveit. And you MUST expect."
I tried to assure her that this was not so. She heard me patientlyand smilingly, but was ready with her own answer.
"Aye, aye, aye! You think so because I am a little rambling. Ve-ryabsurd, to be a little rambling, is it not? Ve-ry confusing, too. Tothe head. I find it so. But, my dear, I have been there many years,and I have noticed. It's the mace and seal upon the table."
What could they do, did she think? I mildly asked her.
"Draw," returned Miss Flite. "Draw people on, my dear. Draw peace outof them. Sense out of them. Good looks out of them. Good qualitiesout of them. I have felt them even drawing my rest away in the night.Cold and glittering devils!"
She tapped me several times upon the arm and nodded good-humouredlyas if she were anxious I should understand that I had no cause tofear her, though she spoke so gloomily, and confided these awfulsecrets to me.
"Let me see," said she. "I'll tell you my own case. Before they everdrew me--before I had ever seen them--what was it I used to do?Tambourine playing? No. Tambour work. I and my sister worked attambour work. Our father and our brother had a builder's business.We all lived together. Ve-ry respectably, my dear! First, our fatherwas drawn--slowly. Home was drawn with him. In a few years hewas a fierce, sour, angry bankrupt without a kind word or a kindlook for any one. He had been so different, Fitz Jarndyce. He wasdrawn to a debtors' prison. There he died. Then our brother wasdrawn--swiftly--to drunkenness. And rags. And death. Then my sisterwas drawn. Hush! Never ask to what! Then I was ill and in misery, andheard, as I had often heard before, that this was all the work ofChancery. When I got better, I went to look at the monster. And thenI found out how it was, and I was drawn to stay there."
Having got over her own short narrative, in the delivery of which shehad spoken in a low, strained voice, as if the shock were fresh uponher, she gradually resumed her usual air of amiable importance.
"You don't quite credit me, my dear! Well, well! You will, some day.I am a little rambling. But I have noticed. I have seen many newfaces come, unsuspicious, within the influence of the mace and sealin these many years. As my father's came there. As my brother's. Asmy sister's. As my own. I hear Conversation Kenge and the rest ofthem say to the new faces, 'Here's little Miss Flite. Oh, you are newhere; and you must come and be presented to little Miss Flite!' Ve-rygood. Proud I am sure to have the honour! And we all laugh. But, FitzJarndyce, I know what will happen. I know, far better than they do,when the attraction has begun. I know the signs, my dear. I saw thembegin in Gridley. And I saw them end. Fitz Jarndyce, my love,"speaking low again, "I saw them beginning in our friend the ward inJarndyce. Let some one hold him back. Or he'll be drawn to ruin."
She looked at me in silence for some moments, with her face graduallysoftening into a smile. Seeming to fear that she had been too gloomy,and seeming also to lose the connexion in her mind, she said politelyas she sipped her glass of wine, "Yes, my dear, as I was saying, Iexpect a judgment shortly. Then I shall release my birds, you know,and confer estates."
I was much impressed by her allusion to Richard and by the sadmeaning, so sadly illustrated in her poor pinched form, that made itsway through all her incoherence. But happily for her, she was quitecomplacent again now and beamed with nods and smiles.
"But, my dear," she said, gaily, reaching another hand to put it uponmine. "You have not congratulated me on my physician. Positively notonce, yet!"
I was obliged to confess that I did not quite know what she meant.
"My physician, Mr. Woodcourt, my dear, who was so exceedinglyattentive to me. Though his services were rendered quitegratuitously. Until the Day of Judgment. I mean THE judgment thatwill dissolve the spell upon me of the mace and seal."
"Mr. Woodcourt is so far away, now," said I, "that I thought the timefor such congratulation was past, Miss Flite."
"But, my child," she returned, "is it possible that you don't knowwhat has happened?"
"No," said I.
"Not what everybody has been talking of, my beloved Fitz Jarndyce!"
"No," said I. "You forget how long I have been here."
"True! My dear, for the moment--true. I blame myself. But my memoryhas been drawn out of me, with everything else, by what I mentioned.Ve-ry strong influence, is it not? Well, my dear, there has been aterrible shipwreck over in those East Indian seas."
"Mr. Woodcourt shipwrecked!"
"Don't be agitated, my dear. He is safe. An awful scene. Death in allshapes. Hundreds of dead and dying. Fire, storm, and darkness.Numbers of the drowning thrown upon a rock. There, and through itall, my dear physician was a hero. Calm and brave through everything.Saved many lives, never complained in hunger and thirst, wrappednaked people in his spare clothes, took the lead, showed them what todo, governed them, tended the sick, buried the dead, and brought thepoor survivors safely off at last! My dear, the poor emaciatedcreatures all but worshipped him. They fell down at his feet whenthey got to the land and blessed him. The whole country rings withit. Stay! Where's my bag of documents? I have got it there, and youshall read it, you shall read it!"
And I DID read all the noble history, though very slowly andimperfectly then, for my eyes were so dimmed that I could not see thewords, and I cried so much that I was many times obliged to lay downthe long account she had cut out of the newspaper. I felt sotriumphant ever to have known the man who had done such generous andgallant deeds, I felt such glowing exultation in his renown, I soadmired and loved what he had done, that I envied the storm-wornpeople who had fallen at his feet and blessed him as their preserver.I could myself have kneeled down then, so far away, and blessed himin my rapture that he should be so truly good and brave. I felt thatno one--mother, sister, wife--could honour him more than I. I did,indeed!
My poor little visitor made me a present of the account, and when asthe evening began to close in she rose to take her leave, lest sheshould miss the coach by which she was to return, she was still fullof the shipwreck, which I had not yet sufficiently composed myself tounderstand in all its details.
"My dear," said she as she carefully folded up her scarf and gloves,"my brave physician ought to have a title bestowed upon him. And nodoubt he will. You are of that opinion?"
That he well deserved one, yes. That he would ever have one, no.
"Why not, Fitz Jarndyce?" she asked rather sharply.
I said it was not the custom in England to confer titles on mendistinguished by peaceful services, however good and great, unlessoccasionally when they consisted of the accumulation of some verylarge amount of money.
"Why, good gracious," said Miss Flite, "how can you say that? Surelyyou know, my dear, that all the greatest ornaments of England inknowledge, imagination, active humanity, and improvement of everysort are added to its nobility! Look round you, my dear, andconsider. YOU must be rambling a little now, I think, if you don'tknow that this is the great reason why titles will always last in theland!"
I am afraid she believed what she said, for there were moments whenshe was very mad indeed.
And now I must part with the little secret I have thus far tried tokeep. I had thought, sometimes, that Mr. Woodcourt loved me and thatif he had been richer he would perhaps have told me that he loved mebefore he went away. I had thought, sometimes, that if he had doneso, I should have been glad of it. But how much better it was nowthat this had never happened! What should I have suffered if I hadhad to write to him and tell him that the poor face he had known asmine was quite gone from me and that I freely released him from hisbondage to one whom he had never seen!
Oh, it was so much better as it was! With a great pang mercifullyspared me, I could take back to my heart my childish prayer to be allhe had so brightly shown himself; and there was nothing to be undone:no chain for me to break or for him to drag; and I could go, pleaseGod, my lowly way along the path of duty, and he could go his noblerway upon its broader road; and though we were apart upon the journey,I might aspire to meet him, unselfishly, innocently, better far thanhe had thought me when I found some favour in his eyes, at thejourney's end.



CHAPTER XXXVI
Chesney Wold

Charley and I did not set off alone upon our expedition intoLincolnshire. My guardian had made up his mind not to lose sight ofme until I was safe in Mr. Boythorn's house, so he accompanied us,and we were two days upon the road. I found every breath of air, andevery scent, and every flower and leaf and blade of grass, and everypassing cloud, and everything in nature, more beautiful and wonderfulto me than I had ever found it yet. This was my first gain from myillness. How little I had lost, when the wide world was so full ofdelight for me.
My guardian intending to go back immediately, we appointed, on ourway down, a day when my dear girl should come. I wrote her a letter,of which he took charge, and he left us within half an hour of ourarrival at our destination, on a delightful evening in the earlysummer-time.
If a good fairy had built the house for me with a wave of her wand,and I had been a princess and her favoured god-child, I could nothave been more considered in it. So many preparations were made forme and such an endearing remembrance was shown of all my littletastes and likings that I could have sat down, overcome, a dozentimes before I had revisited half the rooms. I did better than that,however, by showing them all to Charley instead. Charley's delightcalmed mine; and after we had had a walk in the garden, and Charleyhad exhausted her whole vocabulary of admiring expressions, I was astranquilly happy as I ought to have been. It was a great comfort tobe able to say to myself after tea, "Esther, my dear, I think you arequite sensible enough to sit down now and write a note of thanks toyour host." He had left a note of welcome for me, as sunny as his ownface, and had confided his bird to my care, which I knew to be hishighest mark of confidence. Accordingly I wrote a little note to himin London, telling him how all his favourite plants and trees werelooking, and how the most astonishing of birds had chirped thehonours of the house to me in the most hospitable manner, and how,after singing on my shoulder, to the inconceivable rapture of mylittle maid, he was then at roost in the usual corner of his cage,but whether dreaming or no I could not report. My note finished andsent off to the post, I made myself very busy in unpacking andarranging; and I sent Charley to bed in good time and told her Ishould want her no more that night.
For I had not yet looked in the glass and had never asked to have myown restored to me. I knew this to be a weakness which must beovercome, but I had always said to myself that I would begin afreshwhen I got to where I now was. Therefore I had wanted to be alone,and therefore I said, now alone, in my own room, "Esther, if you areto be happy, if you are to have any right to pray to be true-hearted,you must keep your word, my dear." I was quite resolved to keep it,but I sat down for a little while first to reflect upon all myblessings. And then I said my prayers and thought a little more.
My hair had not been cut off, though it had been in danger more thanonce. It was long and thick. I let it down, and shook it out, andwent up to the glass upon the dressing-table. There was a littlemuslin curtain drawn across it. I drew it back and stood for a momentlooking through such a veil of my own hair that I could see nothingelse. Then I put my hair aside and looked at the reflection in themirror, encouraged by seeing how placidly it looked at me. I was verymuch changed--oh, very, very much. At first my face was so strange tome that I think I should have put my hands before it and started backbut for the encouragement I have mentioned. Very soon it became morefamiliar, and then I knew the extent of the alteration in it betterthan I had done at first. It was not like what I had expected, but Ihad expected nothing definite, and I dare say anything definite wouldhave surprised me.
I had never been a beauty and had never thought myself one, but I hadbeen very different from this. It was all gone now. Heaven was sogood to me that I could let it go with a few not bitter tears andcould stand there arranging my hair for the night quite thankfully.
One thing troubled me, and I considered it for a long time before Iwent to sleep. I had kept Mr. Woodcourt's flowers. When they werewithered I had dried them and put them in a book that I was fond of.Nobody knew this, not even Ada. I was doubtful whether I had a rightto preserve what he had sent to one so different--whether it wasgenerous towards him to do it. I wished to be generous to him, evenin the secret depths of my heart, which he would never know, becauseI could have loved him--could have been devoted to him. At last Icame to the conclusion that I might keep them if I treasured themonly as a remembrance of what was irrevocably past and gone, never tobe looked back on any more, in any other light. I hope this may notseem trivial. I was very much in earnest.
I took care to be up early in the morning and to be before the glasswhen Charley came in on tiptoe.
"Dear, dear, miss!" cried Charley, starting. "Is that you?"
"Yes, Charley," said I, quietly putting up my hair. "And I am verywell indeed, and very happy."
I saw it was a weight off Charley's mind, but it was a greater weightoff mine. I knew the worst now and was composed to it. I shall notconceal, as I go on, the weaknesses I could not quite conquer, butthey always passed from me soon and the happier frame of mind stayedby me faithfully.
Wishing to be fully re-established in my strength and my good spiritsbefore Ada came, I now laid down a little series of plans withCharley for being in the fresh air all day long. We were to be outbefore breakfast, and were to dine early, and were to be out againbefore and after dinner, and were to talk in the garden after tea,and were to go to rest betimes, and were to climb every hill andexplore every road, lane, and field in the neighbourhood. As torestoratives and strengthening delicacies, Mr. Boythorn's goodhousekeeper was for ever trotting about with something to eat ordrink in her hand; I could not even be heard of as resting in thepark but she would come trotting after me with a basket, her cheerfulface shining with a lecture on the importance of frequentnourishment. Then there was a pony expressly for my riding, a chubbypony with a short neck and a mane all over his eyes who couldcanter--when he would--so easily and quietly that he was a treasure.In a very few days he would come to me in the paddock when I calledhim, and eat out of my hand, and follow me about. We arrived at sucha capital understanding that when he was jogging with me lazily, andrather obstinately, down some shady lane, if I patted his neck andsaid, "Stubbs, I am surprised you don't canter when you know how muchI like it; and I think you might oblige me, for you are only gettingstupid and going to sleep," he would give his head a comical shake ortwo and set off directly, while Charley would stand still and laughwith such enjoyment that her laughter was like music. I don't knowwho had given Stubbs his name, but it seemed to belong to him asnaturally as his rough coat. Once we put him in a little chaise anddrove him triumphantly through the green lanes for five miles; butall at once, as we were extolling him to the skies, he seemed to takeit ill that he should have been accompanied so far by the circle oftantalizing little gnats that had been hovering round and round hisears the whole way without appearing to advance an inch, and stoppedto think about it. I suppose he came to the decision that it was notto be borne, for he steadily refused to move until I gave the reinsto Charley and got out and walked, when he followed me with a sturdysort of good humour, putting his head under my arm and rubbing hisear against my sleeve. It was in vain for me to say, "Now, Stubbs, Ifeel quite sure from what I know of you that you will go on if I ridea little while," for the moment I left him, he stood stock stillagain. Consequently I was obliged to lead the way, as before; and inthis order we returned home, to the great delight of the village.
Charley and I had reason to call it the most friendly of villages, Iam sure, for in a week's time the people were so glad to see us goby, though ever so frequently in the course of a day, that there werefaces of greeting in every cottage. I had known many of the grownpeople before and almost all the children, but now the very steeplebegan to wear a familiar and affectionate look. Among my new friendswas an old old woman who lived in such a little thatched andwhitewashed dwelling that when the outside shutter was turned up onits hinges, it shut up the whole house-front. This old lady had agrandson who was a sailor, and I wrote a letter to him for her anddrew at the top of it the chimney-corner in which she had brought himup and where his old stool yet occupied its old place. This wasconsidered by the whole village the most wonderful achievement in theworld, but when an answer came back all the way from Plymouth, inwhich he mentioned that he was going to take the picture all the wayto America, and from America would write again, I got all the creditthat ought to have been given to the post-office and was investedwith the merit of the whole system.
Thus, what with being so much in the air, playing with so manychildren, gossiping with so many people, sitting on invitation in somany cottages, going on with Charley's education, and writing longletters to Ada every day, I had scarcely any time to think about thatlittle loss of mine and was almost always cheerful. If I did think ofit at odd moments now and then, I had only to be busy and forget it.I felt it more than I had hoped I should once when a child said,"Mother, why is the lady not a pretty lady now like she used to be?"But when I found the child was not less fond of me, and drew its softhand over my face with a kind of pitying protection in its touch,that soon set me up again. There were many little occurrences whichsuggested to me, with great consolation, how natural it is to gentlehearts to be considerate and delicate towards any inferiority. One ofthese particularly touched me. I happened to stroll into the littlechurch when a marriage was just concluded, and the young couple hadto sign the register.
The bridegroom, to whom the pen was handed first, made a rude crossfor his mark; the bride, who came next, did the same. Now, I hadknown the bride when I was last there, not only as the prettiest girlin the place, but as having quite distinguished herself in theschool, and I could not help looking at her with some surprise. Shecame aside and whispered to me, while tears of honest love andadmiration stood in her bright eyes, "He's a dear good fellow, miss;but he can't write yet--he's going to learn of me--and I wouldn'tshame him for the world!" Why, what had I to fear, I thought, whenthere was this nobility in the soul of a labouring man's daughter!
The air blew as freshly and revivingly upon me as it had ever blown,and the healthy colour came into my new face as it had come into myold one. Charley was wonderful to see, she was so radiant and sorosy; and we both enjoyed the whole day and slept soundly the wholenight.
There was a favourite spot of mine in the park-woods of Chesney Woldwhere a seat had been erected commanding a lovely view. The wood hadbeen cleared and opened to improve this point of sight, and thebright sunny landscape beyond was so beautiful that I rested there atleast once every day. A picturesque part of the Hall, called theGhost's Walk, was seen to advantage from this higher ground; and thestartling name, and the old legend in the Dedlock family which I hadheard from Mr. Boythorn accounting for it, mingled with the view andgave it something of a mysterious interest in addition to its realcharms. There was a bank here, too, which was a famous one forviolets; and as it was a daily delight of Charley's to gather wildflowers, she took as much to the spot as I did.
It would be idle to inquire now why I never went close to the houseor never went inside it. The family were not there, I had heard on myarrival, and were not expected. I was far from being incurious oruninterested about the building; on the contrary, I often sat in thisplace wondering how the rooms ranged and whether any echo like afootstep really did resound at times, as the story said, upon thelonely Ghost's Walk. The indefinable feeling with which Lady Dedlockhad impressed me may have had some influence in keeping me from thehouse even when she was absent. I am not sure. Her face and figurewere associated with it, naturally; but I cannot say that theyrepelled me from it, though something did. For whatever reason or noreason, I had never once gone near it, down to the day at which mystory now arrives.
I was resting at my favourite point after a long ramble, and Charleywas gathering violets at a little distance from me. I had beenlooking at the Ghost's Walk lying in a deep shade of masonry afar offand picturing to myself the female shape that was said to haunt itwhen I became aware of a figure approaching through the wood. Theperspective was so long and so darkened by leaves, and the shadows ofthe branches on the ground made it so much more intricate to the eye,that at first I could not discern what figure it was. By little andlittle it revealed itself to be a woman's--a lady's--Lady Dedlock's.She was alone and coming to where I sat with a much quicker step, Iobserved to my surprise, than was usual with her.
I was fluttered by her being unexpectedly so near (she was almostwithin speaking distance before I knew her) and would have risen tocontinue my walk. But I could not. I was rendered motionless. Not somuch by her hurried gesture of entreaty, not so much by her quickadvance and outstretched hands, not so much by the great change inher manner and the absence of her haughty self-restraint, as by asomething in her face that I had pined for and dreamed of when I wasa little child, something I had never seen in any face, something Ihad never seen in hers before.
A dread and faintness fell upon me, and I called to Charley. LadyDedlock stopped upon the instant and changed back almost to what Ihad known her.
"Miss Summerson, I am afraid I have startled you," she said, nowadvancing slowly. "You can scarcely be strong yet. You have been veryill, I know. I have been much concerned to hear it."
I could no more have removed my eyes from her pale face than I couldhave stirred from the bench on which I sat. She gave me her hand, andits deadly coldness, so at variance with the enforced composure ofher features, deepened the fascination that overpowered me. I cannotsay what was in my whirling thoughts.
"You are recovering again?" she asked kindly.
"I was quite well but a moment ago, Lady Dedlock."
"Is this your young attendant?"
"Yes."
"Will you send her on before and walk towards your house with me?"
"Charley," said I, "take your flowers home, and I will follow youdirectly."
Charley, with her best curtsy, blushingly tied on her bonnet and wenther way. When she was gone, Lady Dedlock sat down on the seat besideme.
I cannot tell in any words what the state of my mind was when I sawin her hand my handkerchief with which I had covered the dead baby.
I looked at her, but I could not see her, I could not hear her, Icould not draw my breath. The beating of my heart was so violent andwild that I felt as if my life were breaking from me. But when shecaught me to her breast, kissed me, wept over me, compassionated me,and called me back to myself; when she fell down on her knees andcried to me, "Oh, my child, my child, I am your wicked and unhappymother! Oh, try to forgive me!"--when I saw her at my feet on thebare earth in her great agony of mind, I felt, through all my tumultof emotion, a burst of gratitude to the providence of God that I wasso changed as that I never could disgrace her by any trace oflikeness, as that nobody could ever now look at me and look at herand remotely think of any near tie between us.
I raised my mother up, praying and beseeching her not to stoop beforeme in such affliction and humiliation. I did so in broken, incoherentwords, for besides the trouble I was in, it frightened me to see herat MY feet. I told her--or I tried to tell her--that if it were forme, her child, under any circumstances to take upon me to forgiveher, I did it, and had done it, many, many years. I told her that myheart overflowed with love for her, that it was natural love whichnothing in the past had changed or could change. That it was not forme, then resting for the first time on my mother's bosom, to take herto account for having given me life, but that my duty was to blessher and receive her, though the whole world turned from her, and thatI only asked her leave to do it. I held my mother in my embrace, andshe held me in hers, and among the still woods in the silence of thesummer day there seemed to be nothing but our two troubled minds thatwas not at peace.
"To bless and receive me," groaned my mother, "it is far too late. Imust travel my dark road alone, and it will lead me where it will.From day to day, sometimes from hour to hour, I do not see the waybefore my guilty feet. This is the earthly punishment I have broughtupon myself. I bear it, and I hide it."
Even in the thinking of her endurance, she drew her habitual air ofproud indifference about her like a veil, though she soon cast it offagain.
"I must keep this secret, if by any means it can be kept, not whollyfor myself. I have a husband, wretched and dishonouring creature thatI am!"
These words she uttered with a suppressed cry of despair, moreterrible in its sound than any shriek. Covering her face with herhands, she shrank down in my embrace as if she were unwilling that Ishould touch her; nor could I, by my utmost persuasions or by anyendearments I could use, prevail upon her to rise. She said, no, no,no, she could only speak to me so; she must be proud and disdainfuleverywhere else; she would be humbled and ashamed there, in the onlynatural moments of her life.
My unhappy mother told me that in my illness she had been nearlyfrantic. She had but then known that her child was living. She couldnot have suspected me to be that child before. She had followed medown here to speak to me but once in all her life. We never couldassociate, never could communicate, never probably from that timeforth could interchange another word on earth. She put into my handsa letter she had written for my reading only and said when I had readit and destroyed it--but not so much for her sake, since she askednothing, as for her husband's and my own--I must evermore considerher as dead. If I could believe that she loved me, in this agony inwhich I saw her, with a mother's love, she asked me to do that, forthen I might think of her with a greater pity, imagining what shesuffered. She had put herself beyond all hope and beyond all help.Whether she preserved her secret until death or it came to bediscovered and she brought dishonour and disgrace upon the name shehad taken, it was her solitary struggle always; and no affectioncould come near her, and no human creature could render her any aid.
"But is the secret safe so far?" I asked. "Is it safe now, dearestmother?"
"No," replied my mother. "It has been very near discovery. It wassaved by an accident. It may be lost by another accident--to-morrow,any day."
"Do you dread a particular person?"
"Hush! Do not tremble and cry so much for me. I am not worthy ofthese tears," said my mother, kissing my hands. "I dread one personvery much."
"An enemy?"
"Not a friend. One who is too passionless to be either. He is SirLeicester Dedlock's lawyer, mechanically faithful without attachment,and very jealous of the profit, privilege, and reputation of beingmaster of the mysteries of great houses."
"Has he any suspicions?"
"Many."
"Not of you?" I said alarmed.
"Yes! He is always vigilant and always near me. I may keep him at astandstill, but I can never shake him off."
"Has he so little pity or compunction?"
"He has none, and no anger. He is indifferent to everything but hiscalling. His calling is the acquisition of secrets and the holdingpossession of such power as they give him, with no sharer or opponentin it."
"Could you trust in him?"
"I shall never try. The dark road I have trodden for so many yearswill end where it will. I follow it alone to the end, whatever theend be. It may be near, it may be distant; while the road lasts,nothing turns me."
"Dear mother, are you so resolved?"
"I AM resolved. I have long outbidden folly with folly, pride withpride, scorn with scorn, insolence with insolence, and have outlivedmany vanities with many more. I will outlive this danger, and outdieit, if I can. It has closed around me almost as awfully as if thesewoods of Chesney Wold had closed around the house, but my coursethrough it is the same. I have but one; I can have but one."
"Mr. Jarndyce--" I was beginning when my mother hurriedly inquired,"Does HE suspect?"
"No," said I. "No, indeed! Be assured that he does not!" And I toldher what he had related to me as his knowledge of my story. "But heis so good and sensible," said I, "that perhaps if he knew--"
My mother, who until this time had made no change in her position,raised her hand up to my lips and stopped me.
"Confide fully in him," she said after a little while. "You have myfree consent--a small gift from such a mother to her injuredchild!--but do not tell me of it. Some pride is left in me even yet."
I explained, as nearly as I could then, or can recall now--for myagitation and distress throughout were so great that I scarcelyunderstood myself, though every word that was uttered in the mother'svoice, so unfamiliar and so melancholy to me, which in my childhood Ihad never learned to love and recognize, had never been sung to sleepwith, had never heard a blessing from, had never had a hope inspiredby, made an enduring impression on my memory--I say I explained, ortried to do it, how I had only hoped that Mr. Jarndyce, who had beenthe best of fathers to me, might be able to afford some counsel andsupport to her. But my mother answered no, it was impossible; no onecould help her. Through the desert that lay before her, she must goalone.
"My child, my child!" she said. "For the last time! These kisses forthe last time! These arms upon my neck for the last time! We shallmeet no more. To hope to do what I seek to do, I must be what I havebeen so long. Such is my reward and doom. If you hear of LadyDedlock, brilliant, prosperous, and flattered, think of your wretchedmother, conscience-stricken, underneath that mask! Think that thereality is in her suffering, in her useless remorse, in her murderingwithin her breast the only love and truth of which it is capable! Andthen forgive her if you can, and cry to heaven to forgive her, whichit never can!"
We held one another for a little space yet, but she was so firm thatshe took my hands away, and put them back against my breast, and witha last kiss as she held them there, released them, and went from meinto the wood. I was alone, and calm and quiet below me in the sunand shade lay the old house, with its terraces and turrets, on whichthere had seemed to me to be such complete repose when I first sawit, but which now looked like the obdurate and unpitying watcher ofmy mother's misery.
Stunned as I was, as weak and helpless at first as I had ever been inmy sick chamber, the necessity of guarding against the danger ofdiscovery, or even of the remotest suspicion, did me service. I tooksuch precautions as I could to hide from Charley that I had beencrying, and I constrained myself to think of every sacred obligationthat there was upon me to be careful and collected. It was not alittle while before I could succeed or could even restrain bursts ofgrief, but after an hour or so I was better and felt that I mightreturn. I went home very slowly and told Charley, whom I found at thegate looking for me, that I had been tempted to extend my walk afterLady Dedlock had left me and that I was over-tired and would liedown. Safe in my own room, I read the letter. I clearly derived fromit--and that was much then--that I had not been abandoned by mymother. Her elder and only sister, the godmother of my childhood,discovering signs of life in me when I had been laid aside as dead,had in her stern sense of duty, with no desire or willingness that Ishould live, reared me in rigid secrecy and had never again beheld mymother's face from within a few hours of my birth. So strangely did Ihold my place in this world that until within a short time back I hadnever, to my own mother's knowledge, breathed--had been buried--hadnever been endowed with life--had never borne a name. When she hadfirst seen me in the church she had been startled and had thought ofwhat would have been like me if it had ever lived, and had lived on,but that was all then.
What more the letter told me needs not to be repeated here. It hasits own times and places in my story.
My first care was to burn what my mother had written and to consumeeven its ashes. I hope it may not appear very unnatural or bad in methat I then became heavily sorrowful to think I had ever been reared.That I felt as if I knew it would have been better and happier formany people if indeed I had never breathed. That I had a terror ofmyself as the danger and the possible disgrace of my own mother andof a proud family name. That I was so confused and shaken as to bepossessed by a belief that it was right and had been intended that Ishould die in my birth, and that it was wrong and not intended that Ishould be then alive.
These are the real feelings that I had. I fell asleep worn out, andwhen I awoke I cried afresh to think that I was back in the worldwith my load of trouble for others. I was more than ever frightenedof myself, thinking anew of her against whom I was a witness, of theowner of Chesney Wold, of the new and terrible meaning of the oldwords now moaning in my ear like a surge upon the shore, "Yourmother, Esther, was your disgrace, and you are hers. The time willcome--and soon enough--when you will understand this better, and willfeel it too, as no one save a woman can." With them, those otherwords returned, "Pray daily that the sins of others be not visitedupon your head." I could not disentangle all that was about me, and Ifelt as if the blame and the shame were all in me, and the visitationhad come down.
The day waned into a gloomy evening, overcast and sad, and I stillcontended with the same distress. I went out alone, and after walkinga little in the park, watching the dark shades falling on the treesand the fitful flight of the bats, which sometimes almost touched me,was attracted to the house for the first time. Perhaps I might nothave gone near it if I had been in a stronger frame of mind. As itwas, I took the path that led close by it.
I did not dare to linger or to look up, but I passed before theterrace garden with its fragrant odours, and its broad walks, and itswell-kept beds and smooth turf; and I saw how beautiful and grave itwas, and how the old stone balustrades and parapets, and wide flightsof shallow steps, were seamed by time and weather; and how thetrained moss and ivy grew about them, and around the old stonepedestal of the sun-dial; and I heard the fountain falling. Then theway went by long lines of dark windows diversified by turreted towersand porches of eccentric shapes, where old stone lions and grotesquemonsters bristled outside dens of shadow and snarled at the eveninggloom over the escutcheons they held in their grip. Thence the pathwound underneath a gateway, and through a court-yard where theprincipal entrance was (I hurried quickly on), and by the stableswhere none but deep voices seemed to be, whether in the murmuring ofthe wind through the strong mass of ivy holding to a high red wall,or in the low complaining of the weathercock, or in the barking ofthe dogs, or in the slow striking of a clock. So, encounteringpresently a sweet smell of limes, whose rustling I could hear, Iturned with the turning of the path to the south front, and thereabove me were the balustrades of the Ghost's Walk and one lightedwindow that might be my mother's.
The way was paved here, like the terrace overhead, and my footstepsfrom being noiseless made an echoing sound upon the flags. Stoppingto look at nothing, but seeing all I did see as I went, I was passingquickly on, and in a few moments should have passed the lightedwindow, when my echoing footsteps brought it suddenly into my mindthat there was a dreadful truth in the legend of the Ghost's Walk,that it was I who was to bring calamity upon the stately house andthat my warning feet were haunting it even then. Seized with anaugmented terror of myself which turned me cold, I ran from myselfand everything, retraced the way by which I had come, and neverpaused until I had gained the lodge-gate, and the park lay sullen andblack behind me.
Not before I was alone in my own room for the night and had againbeen dejected and unhappy there did I begin to know how wrong andthankless this state was. But from my darling who was coming on themorrow, I found a joyful letter, full of such loving anticipationthat I must have been of marble if it had not moved me; from myguardian, too, I found another letter, asking me to tell Dame Durden,if I should see that little woman anywhere, that they had moped mostpitiably without her, that the housekeeping was going to rack andruin, that nobody else could manage the keys, and that everybody inand about the house declared it was not the same house and wasbecoming rebellious for her return. Two such letters together made methink how far beyond my deserts I was beloved and how happy I oughtto be. That made me think of all my past life; and that brought me,as it ought to have done before, into a better condition.
For I saw very well that I could not have been intended to die, or Ishould never have lived; not to say should never have been reservedfor such a happy life. I saw very well how many things had workedtogether for my welfare, and that if the sins of the fathers weresometimes visited upon the children, the phrase did not mean what Ihad in the morning feared it meant. I knew I was as innocent of mybirth as a queen of hers and that before my Heavenly Father I shouldnot be punished for birth nor a queen rewarded for it. I had hadexperience, in the shock of that very day, that I could, even thussoon, find comforting reconcilements to the change that had fallen onme. I renewed my resolutions and prayed to be strengthened in them,pouring out my heart for myself and for my unhappy mother and feelingthat the darkness of the morning was passing away. It was not upon mysleep; and when the next day's light awoke me, it was gone.
My dear girl was to arrive at five o'clock in the afternoon. How tohelp myself through the intermediate time better than by taking along walk along the road by which she was to come, I did not know; soCharley and I and Stubbs--Stubbs saddled, for we never drove himafter the one great occasion--made a long expedition along that roadand back. On our return, we held a great review of the house andgarden and saw that everything was in its prettiest condition, andhad the bird out ready as an important part of the establishment.
There were more than two full hours yet to elapse before she couldcome, and in that interval, which seemed a long one, I must confess Iwas nervously anxious about my altered looks. I loved my darling sowell that I was more concerned for their effect on her than on anyone. I was not in this slight distress because I at all repined--I amquite certain I did not, that day--but, I thought, would she bewholly prepared? When she first saw me, might she not be a littleshocked and disappointed? Might it not prove a little worse than sheexpected? Might she not look for her old Esther and not find her?Might she not have to grow used to me and to begin all over again?
I knew the various expressions of my sweet girl's face so well, andit was such an honest face in its loveliness, that I was surebeforehand she could not hide that first look from me. And Iconsidered whether, if it should signify any one of these meanings,which was so very likely, could I quite answer for myself?
Well, I thought I could. After last night, I thought I could. But towait and wait, and expect and expect, and think and think, was suchbad preparation that I resolved to go along the road again and meether.
So I said to Charley, "Charley, I will go by myself and walk alongthe road until she comes." Charley highly approving of anything thatpleased me, I went and left her at home.
But before I got to the second milestone, I had been in so manypalpitations from seeing dust in the distance (though I knew it wasnot, and could not, be the coach yet) that I resolved to turn backand go home again. And when I had turned, I was in such fear of thecoach coming up behind me (though I still knew that it neither would,nor could, do any such thing) that I ran the greater part of the wayto avoid being overtaken.
Then, I considered, when I had got safe back again, this was a nicething to have done! Now I was hot and had made the worst of itinstead of the best.
At last, when I believed there was at least a quarter of an hour moreyet, Charley all at once cried out to me as I was trembling in thegarden, "Here she comes, miss! Here she is!"
I did not mean to do it, but I ran upstairs into my room and hidmyself behind the door. There I stood trembling, even when I heard mydarling calling as she came upstairs, "Esther, my dear, my love,where are you? Little woman, dear Dame Durden!"
She ran in, and was running out again when she saw me. Ah, my angelgirl! The old dear look, all love, all fondness, all affection.Nothing else in it--no, nothing, nothing!
Oh, how happy I was, down upon the floor, with my sweet beautifulgirl down upon the floor too, holding my scarred face to her lovelycheek, bathing it with tears and kisses, rocking me to and fro like achild, calling me by every tender name that she could think of, andpressing me to her faithful heart.



CHAPTER XXXVII
Jarndyce and Jarndyce

If the secret I had to keep had been mine, I must have confided it toAda before we had been long together. But it was not mine, and I didnot feel that I had a right to tell it, even to my guardian, unlesssome great emergency arose. It was a weight to bear alone; still mypresent duty appeared to be plain, and blest in the attachment of mydear, I did not want an impulse and encouragement to do it. Thoughoften when she was asleep and all was quiet, the remembrance of mymother kept me waking and made the night sorrowful, I did not yieldto it at another time; and Ada found me what I used to be--except, ofcourse, in that particular of which I have said enough and which Ihave no intention of mentioning any more just now, if I can help it.
The difficulty that I felt in being quite composed that first eveningwhen Ada asked me, over our work, if the family were at the house,and when I was obliged to answer yes, I believed so, for Lady Dedlockhad spoken to me in the woods the day before yesterday, was great.Greater still when Ada asked me what she had said, and when I repliedthat she had been kind and interested, and when Ada, while admittingher beauty and elegance, remarked upon her proud manner and herimperious chilling air. But Charley helped me through, unconsciously,by telling us that Lady Dedlock had only stayed at the house twonights on her way from London to visit at some other great house inthe next county and that she had left early on the morning after wehad seen her at our view, as we called it. Charley verified the adageabout little pitchers, I am sure, for she heard of more sayings anddoings in a day than would have come to my ears in a month.
We were to stay a month at Mr. Boythorn's. My pet had scarcely beenthere a bright week, as I recollect the time, when one evening afterwe had finished helping the gardener in watering his flowers, andjust as the candles were lighted, Charley, appearing with a veryimportant air behind Ada's chair, beckoned me mysteriously out of theroom.
"Oh! If you please, miss," said Charley in a whisper, with her eyesat their roundest and largest. "You're wanted at the Dedlock Arms."
"Why, Charley," said I, "who can possibly want me at thepublic-house?"
"I don't know, miss," returned Charley, putting her head forward andfolding her hands tight upon the band of her little apron, which shealways did in the enjoyment of anything mysterious or confidential,"but it's a gentleman, miss, and his compliments, and will you pleaseto come without saying anything about it."
"Whose compliments, Charley?"
"His'n, miss," returned Charley, whose grammatical education wasadvancing, but not very rapidly.
"And how do you come to be the messenger, Charley?"
"I am not the messenger, if you please, miss," returned my littlemaid. "It was W. Grubble, miss."
"And who is W. Grubble, Charley?"
"Mister Grubble, miss," returned Charley. "Don't you know, miss? TheDedlock Arms, by W. Grubble," which Charley delivered as if she wereslowly spelling out the sign.
"Aye? The landlord, Charley?"
"Yes, miss. If you please, miss, his wife is a beautiful woman, butshe broke her ankle, and it never joined. And her brother's thesawyer that was put in the cage, miss, and they expect he'll drinkhimself to death entirely on beer," said Charley.
Not knowing what might be the matter, and being easily apprehensivenow, I thought it best to go to this place by myself. I bade Charleybe quick with my bonnet and veil and my shawl, and having put themon, went away down the little hilly street, where I was as much athome as in Mr. Boythorn's garden.
Mr. Grubble was standing in his shirt-sleeves at the door of his veryclean little tavern waiting for me. He lifted off his hat with bothhands when he saw me coming, and carrying it so, as if it were aniron vessel (it looked as heavy), preceded me along the sandedpassage to his best parlour, a neat carpeted room with more plants init than were quite convenient, a coloured print of Queen Caroline,several shells, a good many tea-trays, two stuffed and dried fish inglass cases, and either a curious egg or a curious pumpkin (but Idon't know which, and I doubt if many people did) hanging from hisceiling. I knew Mr. Grubble very well by sight, from his oftenstanding at his door. A pleasant-looking, stoutish, middle-aged manwho never seemed to consider himself cozily dressed for his ownfire-side without his hat and top-boots, but who never wore a coatexcept at church.
He snuffed the candle, and backing away a little to see how itlooked, backed out of the room--unexpectedly to me, for I was goingto ask him by whom he had been sent. The door of the opposite parlourbeing then opened, I heard some voices, familiar in my ears Ithought, which stopped. A quick light step approached the room inwhich I was, and who should stand before me but Richard!
"My dear Esther!" he said. "My best friend!" And he really was sowarm-hearted and earnest that in the first surprise and pleasure ofhis brotherly greeting I could scarcely find breath to tell him thatAda was well.
"Answering my very thoughts--always the same dear girl!" saidRichard, leading me to a chair and seating himself beside me.
I put my veil up, but not quite.
"Always the same dear girl!" said Richard just as heartily as before.
I put up my veil altogether, and laying my hand on Richard's sleeveand looking in his face, told him how much I thanked him for his kindwelcome and how greatly I rejoiced to see him, the more so because ofthe determination I had made in my illness, which I now conveyed tohim.
"My love," said Richard, "there is no one with whom I have a greaterwish to talk than you, for I want you to understand me."
"And I want you, Richard," said I, shaking my head, "to understandsome one else."
"Since you refer so immediately to John Jarndyce," said Richard, "--Isuppose you mean him?"
"Of course I do."
"Then I may say at once that I am glad of it, because it is on thatsubject that I am anxious to be understood. By you, mind--you, mydear! I am not accountable to Mr. Jarndyce or Mr. Anybody."
I was pained to find him taking this tone, and he observed it.
"Well, well, my dear," said Richard, "we won't go into that now. Iwant to appear quietly in your country-house here, with you under myarm, and give my charming cousin a surprise. I suppose your loyaltyto John Jarndyce will allow that?"
"My dear Richard," I returned, "you know you would be heartilywelcome at his house--your home, if you will but consider it so; andyou are as heartily welcome here!"
"Spoken like the best of little women!" cried Richard gaily.
I asked him how he liked his profession.
"Oh, I like it well enough!" said Richard. "It's all right. It doesas well as anything else, for a time. I don't know that I shall careabout it when I come to be settled, but I can sell out thenand--however, never mind all that botheration at present."
So young and handsome, and in all respects so perfectly the oppositeof Miss Flite! And yet, in the clouded, eager, seeking look thatpassed over him, so dreadfully like her!
"I am in town on leave just now," said Richard.
"Indeed?"
"Yes. I have run over to look after my--my Chancery interests beforethe long vacation," said Richard, forcing a careless laugh. "We arebeginning to spin along with that old suit at last, I promise you."
No wonder that I shook my head!
"As you say, it's not a pleasant subject." Richard spoke with thesame shade crossing his face as before. "Let it go to the four windsfor to-night. Puff! Gone! Who do you suppose is with me?"
"Was it Mr. Skimpole's voice I heard?"
"That's the man! He does me more good than anybody. What afascinating child it is!"
I asked Richard if any one knew of their coming down together. Heanswered, no, nobody. He had been to call upon the dear oldinfant--so he called Mr. Skimpole--and the dear old infant had toldhim where we were, and he had told the dear old infant he was bent oncoming to see us, and the dear old infant had directly wanted to cometoo; and so he had brought him. "And he is worth--not to say hissordid expenses--but thrice his weight in gold," said Richard. "He issuch a cheery fellow. No worldliness about him. Fresh andgreen-hearted!"
I certainly did not see the proof of Mr. Skimpole's worldliness inhis having his expenses paid by Richard, but I made no remark aboutthat. Indeed, he came in and turned our conversation. He was charmedto see me, said he had been shedding delicious tears of joy andsympathy at intervals for six weeks on my account, had never been sohappy as in hearing of my progress, began to understand the mixtureof good and evil in the world now, felt that he appreciated healththe more when somebody else was ill, didn't know but what it might bein the scheme of things that A should squint to make B happier inlooking straight or that C should carry a wooden leg to make D bettersatisfied with his flesh and blood in a silk stocking.
"My dear Miss Summerson, here is our friend Richard," said Mr.Skimpole, "full of the brightest visions of the future, which heevokes out of the darkness of Chancery. Now that's delightful, that'sinspiriting, that's full of poetry! In old times the woods andsolitudes were made joyous to the shepherd by the imaginary pipingand dancing of Pan and the nymphs. This present shepherd, ourpastoral Richard, brightens the dull Inns of Court by making Fortuneand her train sport through them to the melodious notes of a judgmentfrom the bench. That's very pleasant, you know! Some ill-conditionedgrowling fellow may say to me, 'What's the use of these legal andequitable abuses? How do you defend them?' I reply, 'My growlingfriend, I DON'T defend them, but they are very agreeable to me. Thereis a shepherd--youth, a friend of mine, who transmutes them intosomething highly fascinating to my simplicity. I don't say it is forthis that they exist--for I am a child among you worldly grumblers,and not called upon to account to you or myself for anything--but itmay be so.'"
I began seriously to think that Richard could scarcely have found aworse friend than this. It made me uneasy that at such a time when hemost required some right principle and purpose he should have thiscaptivating looseness and putting-off of everything, this airydispensing with all principle and purpose, at his elbow. I thought Icould understand how such a nature as my guardian's, experienced inthe world and forced to contemplate the miserable evasions andcontentions of the family misfortune, found an immense relief in Mr.Skimpole's avowal of his weaknesses and display of guileless candour;but I could not satisfy myself that it was as artless as it seemed orthat it did not serve Mr. Skimpole's idle turn quite as well as anyother part, and with less trouble.
They both walked back with me, and Mr. Skimpole leaving us at thegate, I walked softly in with Richard and said, "Ada, my love, I havebrought a gentleman to visit you." It was not difficult to read theblushing, startled face. She loved him dearly, and he knew it, and Iknew it. It was a very transparent business, that meeting as cousinsonly.
I almost mistrusted myself as growing quite wicked in my suspicions,but I was not so sure that Richard loved her dearly. He admired hervery much--any one must have done that--and I dare say would haverenewed their youthful engagement with great pride and ardour butthat he knew how she would respect her promise to my guardian. StillI had a tormenting idea that the influence upon him extended evenhere, that he was postponing his best truth and earnestness in thisas in all things until Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be off his mind.Ah me! What Richard would have been without that blight, I nevershall know now!
He told Ada, in his most ingenuous way, that he had not come to makeany secret inroad on the terms she had accepted (rather tooimplicitly and confidingly, he thought) from Mr. Jarndyce, that hehad come openly to see her and to see me and to justify himself forthe present terms on which he stood with Mr. Jarndyce. As the dearold infant would be with us directly, he begged that I would make anappointment for the morning, when he might set himself right throughthe means of an unreserved conversation with me. I proposed to walkwith him in the park at seven o'clock, and this was arranged. Mr.Skimpole soon afterwards appeared and made us merry for an hour. Heparticularly requested to see little Coavinses (meaning Charley) andtold her, with a patriarchal air, that he had given her late fatherall the business in his power and that if one of her little brotherswould make haste to get set up in the same profession, he hoped heshould still be able to put a good deal of employment in his way.
"For I am constantly being taken in these nets," said Mr. Skimpole,looking beamingly at us over a glass of wine-and-water, "and amconstantly being bailed out--like a boat. Or paid off--like a ship'scompany. Somebody always does it for me. I can't do it, you know, forI never have any money. But somebody does it. I get out by somebody'smeans; I am not like the starling; I get out. If you were to ask mewho somebody is, upon my word I couldn't tell you. Let us drink tosomebody. God bless him!"
Richard was a little late in the morning, but I had not to wait forhim long, and we turned into the park. The air was bright and dewyand the sky without a cloud. The birds sang delightfully; thesparkles in the fern, the grass, and trees, were exquisite to see;the richness of the woods seemed to have increased twenty-fold sinceyesterday, as if, in the still night when they had looked somassively hushed in sleep, Nature, through all the minute details ofevery wonderful leaf, had been more wakeful than usual for the gloryof that day.
"This is a lovely place," said Richard, looking round. "None of thejar and discord of law-suits here!"
But there was other trouble.
"I tell you what, my dear girl," said Richard, "when I get affairs ingeneral settled, I shall come down here, I think, and rest."
"Would it not be better to rest now?" I asked.
"Oh, as to resting NOW," said Richard, "or as to doing anything verydefinite NOW, that's not easy. In short, it can't be done; I can't doit at least."
"Why not?" said I.
"You know why not, Esther. If you were living in an unfinished house,liable to have the roof put on or taken off--to be from top to bottompulled down or built up--to-morrow, next day, next week, next month,next year--you would find it hard to rest or settle. So do I. Now?There's no now for us suitors."
I could almost have believed in the attraction on which my poorlittle wandering friend had expatiated when I saw again the darkenedlook of last night. Terrible to think it had in it also a shade ofthat unfortunate man who had died.
"My dear Richard," said I, "this is a bad beginning of ourconversation."
"I knew you would tell me so, Dame Durden."
"And not I alone, dear Richard. It was not I who cautioned you oncenever to found a hope or expectation on the family curse."
"There you come back to John Jarndyce!" said Richard impatiently."Well! We must approach him sooner or later, for he is the staple ofwhat I have to say, and it's as well at once. My dear Esther, how canyou be so blind? Don't you see that he is an interested party andthat it may be very well for him to wish me to know nothing of thesuit, and care nothing about it, but that it may not be quite so wellfor me?"
"Oh, Richard," I remonstrated, "is it possible that you can ever haveseen him and heard him, that you can ever have lived under his roofand known him, and can yet breathe, even to me in this solitary placewhere there is no one to hear us, such unworthy suspicions?"
He reddened deeply, as if his natural generosity felt a pang ofreproach. He was silent for a little while before he replied in asubdued voice, "Esther, I am sure you know that I am not a meanfellow and that I have some sense of suspicion and distrust beingpoor qualities in one of my years."
"I know it very well," said I. "I am not more sure of anything."
"That's a dear girl," retorted Richard, "and like you, because itgives me comfort. I had need to get some scrap of comfort out of allthis business, for it's a bad one at the best, as I have no occasionto tell you."
"I know perfectly," said I. "I know as well, Richard--what shall Isay? as well as you do--that such misconstructions are foreign toyour nature. And I know, as well as you know, what so changes it."
"Come, sister, come," said Richard a little more gaily, "you will befair with me at all events. If I have the misfortune to be under thatinfluence, so has he. If it has a little twisted me, it may have alittle twisted him too. I don't say that he is not an honourable man,out of all this complication and uncertainty; I am sure he is. But ittaints everybody. You know it taints everybody. You have heard himsay so fifty times. Then why should HE escape?"
"Because," said I, "his is an uncommon character, and he hasresolutely kept himself outside the circle, Richard."
"Oh, because and because!" replied Richard in his vivacious way. "Iam not sure, my dear girl, but that it may be wise and specious topreserve that outward indifference. It may cause other partiesinterested to become lax about their interests; and people may dieoff, and points may drag themselves out of memory, and many thingsmay smoothly happen that are convenient enough."
I was so touched with pity for Richard that I could not reproach himany more, even by a look. I remembered my guardian's gentlenesstowards his errors and with what perfect freedom from resentment hehad spoken of them.
"Esther," Richard resumed, "you are not to suppose that I have comehere to make underhanded charges against John Jarndyce. I have onlycome to justify myself. What I say is, it was all very well and wegot on very well while I was a boy, utterly regardless of this samesuit; but as soon as I began to take an interest in it and to lookinto it, then it was quite another thing. Then John Jarndycediscovers that Ada and I must break off and that if I don't amendthat very objectionable course, I am not fit for her. Now, Esther, Idon't mean to amend that very objectionable course: I will not holdJohn Jarndyce's favour on those unfair terms of compromise, which hehas no right to dictate. Whether it pleases him or displeases him, Imust maintain my rights and Ada's. I have been thinking about it agood deal, and this is the conclusion I have come to."
Poor dear Richard! He had indeed been thinking about it a good deal.His face, his voice, his manner, all showed that too plainly.
"So I tell him honourably (you are to know I have written to himabout all this) that we are at issue and that we had better be atissue openly than covertly. I thank him for his goodwill and hisprotection, and he goes his road, and I go mine. The fact is, ourroads are not the same. Under one of the wills in dispute, I shouldtake much more than he. I don't mean to say that it is the one to beestablished, but there it is, and it has its chance."
"I have not to learn from you, my dear Richard," said I, "of yourletter. I had heard of it already without an offended or angry word."
"Indeed?" replied Richard, softening. "I am glad I said he was anhonourable man, out of all this wretched affair. But I always saythat and have never doubted it. Now, my dear Esther, I know theseviews of mine appear extremely harsh to you, and will to Ada when youtell her what has passed between us. But if you had gone into thecase as I have, if you had only applied yourself to the papers as Idid when I was at Kenge's, if you only knew what an accumulation ofcharges and counter-charges, and suspicions and cross-suspicions,they involve, you would think me moderate in comparison."
"Perhaps so," said I. "But do you think that, among those manypapers, there is much truth and justice, Richard?"
"There is truth and justice somewhere in the case, Esther--"
"Or was once, long ago," said I.
"Is--is--must be somewhere," pursued Richard impetuously, "and mustbe brought out. To allow Ada to be made a bribe and hush-money of isnot the way to bring it out. You say the suit is changing me; JohnJarndyce says it changes, has changed, and will change everybody whohas any share in it. Then the greater right I have on my side when Iresolve to do all I can to bring it to an end."
"All you can, Richard! Do you think that in these many years noothers have done all they could? Has the difficulty grown easierbecause of so many failures?"
"It can't last for ever," returned Richard with a fierceness kindlingin him which again presented to me that last sad reminder. "I amyoung and earnest, and energy and determination have done wondersmany a time. Others have only half thrown themselves into it. Idevote myself to it. I make it the object of my life."
"Oh, Richard, my dear, so much the worse, so much the worse!"
"No, no, no, don't you be afraid for me," he returned affectionately."You're a dear, good, wise, quiet, blessed girl; but you have yourprepossessions. So I come round to John Jarndyce. I tell you, my goodEsther, when he and I were on those terms which he found soconvenient, we were not on natural terms."
"Are division and animosity your natural terms, Richard?"
"No, I don't say that. I mean that all this business puts us onunnatural terms, with which natural relations are incompatible. Seeanother reason for urging it on! I may find out when it's over that Ihave been mistaken in John Jarndyce. My head may be clearer when I amfree of it, and I may then agree with what you say to-day. Very well.Then I shall acknowledge it and make him reparation."
Everything postponed to that imaginary time! Everything held inconfusion and indecision until then!
"Now, my best of confidantes," said Richard, "I want my cousin Ada tounderstand that I am not captious, fickle, and wilful about JohnJarndyce, but that I have this purpose and reason at my back. I wishto represent myself to her through you, because she has a greatesteem and respect for her cousin John; and I know you will softenthe course I take, even though you disapprove of it; and--and inshort," said Richard, who had been hesitating through these words,"I--I don't like to represent myself in this litigious, contentious,doubting character to a confiding girl like Ada."
I told him that he was more like himself in those latter words thanin anything he had said yet.
"Why," acknowledged Richard, "that may be true enough, my love. Irather feel it to be so. But I shall be able to give myself fair-playby and by. I shall come all right again, then, don't you be afraid."
I asked him if this were all he wished me to tell Ada.
"Not quite," said Richard. "I am bound not to withhold from her thatJohn Jarndyce answered my letter in his usual manner, addressing meas 'My dear Rick,' trying to argue me out of my opinions, and tellingme that they should make no difference in him. (All very well ofcourse, but not altering the case.) I also want Ada to know that if Isee her seldom just now, I am looking after her interests as well asmy own--we two being in the same boat exactly--and that I hope shewill not suppose from any flying rumours she may hear that I am atall light-headed or imprudent; on the contrary, I am always lookingforward to the termination of the suit, and always planning in thatdirection. Being of age now and having taken the step I have taken, Iconsider myself free from any accountability to John Jarndyce; butAda being still a ward of the court, I don't yet ask her to renew ourengagement. When she is free to act for herself, I shall be myselfonce more and we shall both be in very different worldlycircumstances, I believe. If you tell her all this with the advantageof your considerate way, you will do me a very great and a very kindservice, my dear Esther; and I shall knock Jarndyce and Jarndyce onthe head with greater vigour. Of course I ask for no secrecy at BleakHouse."
"Richard," said I, "you place great confidence in me, but I fear youwill not take advice from me?"
"It's impossible that I can on this subject, my dear girl. On anyother, readily."
As if there were any other in his life! As if his whole career andcharacter were not being dyed one colour!
"But I may ask you a question, Richard?"
"I think so," said he, laughing. "I don't know who may not, if youmay not."
"You say, yourself, you are not leading a very settled life."
"How can I, my dear Esther, with nothing settled!"
"Are you in debt again?"
"Why, of course I am," said Richard, astonished at my simplicity.
"Is it of course?"
"My dear child, certainly. I can't throw myself into an object socompletely without expense. You forget, or perhaps you don't know,that under either of the wills Ada and I take something. It's only aquestion between the larger sum and the smaller. I shall be withinthe mark any way. Bless your heart, my excellent girl," said Richard,quite amused with me, "I shall be all right! I shall pull through, mydear!"
I felt so deeply sensible of the danger in which he stood that Itried, in Ada's name, in my guardian's, in my own, by every ferventmeans that I could think of, to warn him of it and to show him someof his mistakes. He received everything I said with patience andgentleness, but it all rebounded from him without taking the leasteffect. I could not wonder at this after the reception hispreoccupied mind had given to my guardian's letter, but I determinedto try Ada's influence yet.
So when our walk brought us round to the village again, and I wenthome to breakfast, I prepared Ada for the account I was going to giveher and told her exactly what reason we had to dread that Richard waslosing himself and scattering his whole life to the winds. It madeher very unhappy, of course, though she had a far, far greaterreliance on his correcting his errors than I could have--which was sonatural and loving in my dear!--and she presently wrote him thislittle letter:

   My dearest cousin,
   Esther has told me all you said to her this morning. I   write this to repeat most earnestly for myself all that   she said to you and to let you know how sure I am that   you will sooner or later find our cousin John a pattern   of truth, sincerity, and goodness, when you will deeply,   deeply grieve to have done him (without intending it) so   much wrong.
   I do not quite know how to write what I wish to say next,   but I trust you will understand it as I mean it. I have   some fears, my dearest cousin, that it may be partly for   my sake you are now laying up so much unhappiness for   yourself--and if for yourself, for me. In case this should   be so, or in case you should entertain much thought of me   in what you are doing, I most earnestly entreat and beg   you to desist. You can do nothing for my sake that will   make me half so happy as for ever turning your back upon   the shadow in which we both were born. Do not be angry   with me for saying this. Pray, pray, dear Richard, for my   sake, and for your own, and in a natural repugnance for   that source of trouble which had its share in making us   both orphans when we were very young, pray, pray, let it   go for ever. We have reason to know by this time that   there is no good in it and no hope, that there is nothing   to be got from it but sorrow.
   My dearest cousin, it is needless for me to say that you   are quite free and that it is very likely you may find   some one whom you will love much better than your first   fancy. I am quite sure, if you will let me say so, that   the object of your choice would greatly prefer to follow   your fortunes far and wide, however moderate or poor, and   see you happy, doing your duty and pursuing your chosen   way, than to have the hope of being, or even to be, very   rich with you (if such a thing were possible) at the cost   of dragging years of procrastination and anxiety and of   your indifference to other aims. You may wonder at my   saying this so confidently with so little knowledge or   experience, but I know it for a certainty from my own   heart.
   Ever, my dearest cousin, your most affectionate
   Ada

This note brought Richard to us very soon, but it made little changein him if any. We would fairly try, he said, who was right and whowas wrong--he would show us--we should see! He was animated andglowing, as if Ada's tenderness had gratified him; but I could onlyhope, with a sigh, that the letter might have some stronger effectupon his mind on re-perusal than it assuredly had then.
As they were to remain with us that day and had taken their places toreturn by the coach next morning, I sought an opportunity of speakingto Mr. Skimpole. Our out-of-door life easily threw one in my way, andI delicately said that there was a responsibility in encouragingRichard.
"Responsibility, my dear Miss Summerson?" he repeated, catching atthe word with the pleasantest smile. "I am the last man in the worldfor such a thing. I never was responsible in my life--I can't be."
"I am afraid everybody is obliged to be," said I timidly enough, hebeing so much older and more clever than I.
"No, really?" said Mr. Skimpole, receiving this new light with a mostagreeable jocularity of surprise. "But every man's not obliged to besolvent? I am not. I never was. See, my dear Miss Summerson," he tooka handful of loose silver and halfpence from his pocket, "there's somuch money. I have not an idea how much. I have not the power ofcounting. Call it four and ninepence--call it four pound nine. Theytell me I owe more than that. I dare say I do. I dare say I owe asmuch as good-natured people will let me owe. If they don't stop, whyshould I? There you have Harold Skimpole in little. If that'sresponsibility, I am responsible."
The perfect ease of manner with which he put the money up again andlooked at me with a smile on his refined face, as if he had beenmentioning a curious little fact about somebody else, almost made mefeel as if he really had nothing to do with it.
"Now, when you mention responsibility," he resumed, "I am disposed tosay that I never had the happiness of knowing any one whom I shouldconsider so refreshingly responsible as yourself. You appear to meto be the very touchstone of responsibility. When I see you, mydear Miss Summerson, intent upon the perfect working of the wholelittle orderly system of which you are the centre, I feel inclinedto say to myself--in fact I do say to myself very often--THAT'Sresponsibility!"
It was difficult, after this, to explain what I meant; but Ipersisted so far as to say that we all hoped he would check and notconfirm Richard in the sanguine views he entertained just then.
"Most willingly," he retorted, "if I could. But, my dear MissSummerson, I have no art, no disguise. If he takes me by the hand andleads me through Westminster Hall in an airy procession afterfortune, I must go. If he says, 'Skimpole, join the dance!' I mustjoin it. Common sense wouldn't, I know, but I have NO common sense."
It was very unfortunate for Richard, I said.
"Do you think so!" returned Mr. Skimpole. "Don't say that, don't saythat. Let us suppose him keeping company with Common Sense--anexcellent man--a good deal wrinkled--dreadfully practical--change fora ten-pound note in every pocket--ruled account-book in hishand--say, upon the whole, resembling a tax-gatherer. Our dearRichard, sanguine, ardent, overleaping obstacles, bursting withpoetry like a young bud, says to this highly respectable companion,'I see a golden prospect before me; it's very bright, it's verybeautiful, it's very joyous; here I go, bounding over the landscapeto come at it!' The respectable companion instantly knocks him downwith the ruled account-book; tells him in a literal, prosaic way thathe sees no such thing; shows him it's nothing but fees, fraud,horsehair wigs, and black gowns. Now you know that's a painfulchange--sensible in the last degree, I have no doubt, butdisagreeable. I can't do it. I haven't got the ruled account-book, Ihave none of the tax-gathering elements in my composition, I am notat all respectable, and I don't want to be. Odd perhaps, but so itis!"
It was idle to say more, so I proposed that we should join Ada andRichard, who were a little in advance, and I gave up Mr. Skimpole indespair. He had been over the Hall in the course of the morning andwhimsically described the family pictures as we walked. There weresuch portentous shepherdesses among the Ladies Dedlock dead and gone,he told us, that peaceful crooks became weapons of assault in theirhands. They tended their flocks severely in buckram and powder andput their sticking-plaster patches on to terrify commoners as thechiefs of some other tribes put on their war-paint. There was a SirSomebody Dedlock, with a battle, a sprung-mine, volumes of smoke,flashes of lightning, a town on fire, and a stormed fort, all in fullaction between his horse's two hind legs, showing, he supposed, howlittle a Dedlock made of such trifles. The whole race he representedas having evidently been, in life, what he called "stuffed people"--alarge collection, glassy eyed, set up in the most approved manner ontheir various twigs and perches, very correct, perfectly free fromanimation, and always in glass cases.
I was not so easy now during any reference to the name but that Ifelt it a relief when Richard, with an exclamation of surprise,hurried away to meet a stranger whom he first descried coming slowlytowards us.
"Dear me!" said Mr. Skimpole. "Vholes!"
We asked if that were a friend of Richard's.
"Friend and legal adviser," said Mr. Skimpole. "Now, my dear MissSummerson, if you want common sense, responsibility, andrespectability, all united--if you want an exemplary man--Vholes isTHE man."
We had not known, we said, that Richard was assisted by any gentlemanof that name.
"When he emerged from legal infancy," returned Mr. Skimpole, "heparted from our conversational friend Kenge and took up, I believe,with Vholes. Indeed, I know he did, because I introduced him toVholes."
"Had you known him long?" asked Ada.
"Vholes? My dear Miss Clare, I had had that kind of acquaintance withhim which I have had with several gentlemen of his profession. He haddone something or other in a very agreeable, civil manner--takenproceedings, I think, is the expression--which ended in theproceeding of his taking ME. Somebody was so good as to step in andpay the money--something and fourpence was the amount; I forget thepounds and shillings, but I know it ended with fourpence, because itstruck me at the time as being so odd that I could owe anybodyfourpence--and after that I brought them together. Vholes asked mefor the introduction, and I gave it. Now I come to think of it," helooked inquiringly at us with his frankest smile as he made thediscovery, "Vholes bribed me, perhaps? He gave me something andcalled it commission. Was it a five-pound note? Do you know, I thinkit MUST have been a five-pound note!"
His further consideration of the point was prevented by Richard'scoming back to us in an excited state and hastily representing Mr.Vholes--a sallow man with pinched lips that looked as if they werecold, a red eruption here and there upon his face, tall and thin,about fifty years of age, high-shouldered, and stooping. Dressed inblack, black-gloved, and buttoned to the chin, there was nothing soremarkable in him as a lifeless manner and a slow, fixed way he hadof looking at Richard.
"I hope I don't disturb you, ladies," said Mr. Vholes, and now Iobserved that he was further remarkable for an inward manner ofspeaking. "I arranged with Mr. Carstone that he should always knowwhen his cause was in the Chancellor's paper, and being informed byone of my clerks last night after post time that it stood, ratherunexpectedly, in the paper for to-morrow, I put myself into the coachearly this morning and came down to confer with him."
"Yes," said Richard, flushed, and looking triumphantly at Ada and me,"we don't do these things in the old slow way now. We spin along now!Mr. Vholes, we must hire something to get over to the post town in,and catch the mail to-night, and go up by it!"
"Anything you please, sir," returned Mr. Vholes. "I am quite at yourservice."
"Let me see," said Richard, looking at his watch. "If I run down tothe Dedlock, and get my portmanteau fastened up, and order a gig, ora chaise, or whatever's to be got, we shall have an hour then beforestarting. I'll come back to tea. Cousin Ada, will you and Esther takecare of Mr. Vholes when I am gone?"
He was away directly, in his heat and hurry, and was soon lost in thedusk of evening. We who were left walked on towards the house.
"Is Mr. Carstone's presence necessary to-morrow, Sir?" said I. "Canit do any good?"
"No, miss," Mr. Vholes replied. "I am not aware that it can."
Both Ada and I expressed our regret that he should go, then, only tobe disappointed.
"Mr. Carstone has laid down the principle of watching his owninterests," said Mr. Vholes, "and when a client lays down his ownprinciple, and it is not immoral, it devolves upon me to carry itout. I wish in business to be exact and open. I am a widower withthree daughters--Emma, Jane, and Caroline--and my desire is so todischarge the duties of life as to leave them a good name. Thisappears to be a pleasant spot, miss."
The remark being made to me in consequence of my being next him as wewalked, I assented and enumerated its chief attractions.
"Indeed?" said Mr. Vholes. "I have the privilege of supporting anaged father in the Vale of Taunton--his native place--and I admirethat country very much. I had no idea there was anything soattractive here."
To keep up the conversation, I asked Mr. Vholes if he would like tolive altogether in the country.
"There, miss," said he, "you touch me on a tender string. My healthis not good (my digestion being much impaired), and if I had onlymyself to consider, I should take refuge in rural habits, especiallyas the cares of business have prevented me from ever coming much intocontact with general society, and particularly with ladies' society,which I have most wished to mix in. But with my three daughters,Emma, Jane, and Caroline--and my aged father--I cannot afford to beselfish. It is true I have no longer to maintain a dear grandmotherwho died in her hundred and second year, but enough remains to renderit indispensable that the mill should be always going."
It required some attention to hear him on account of his inwardspeaking and his lifeless manner.
"You will excuse my having mentioned my daughters," he said. "Theyare my weak point. I wish to leave the poor girls some littleindependence, as well as a good name."
We now arrived at Mr. Boythorn's house, where the tea-table, allprepared, was awaiting us. Richard came in restless and hurriedshortly afterwards, and leaning over Mr. Vholes's chair, whisperedsomething in his ear. Mr. Vholes replied aloud--or as nearly aloud Isuppose as he had ever replied to anything--"You will drive me, willyou, sir? It is all the same to me, sir. Anything you please. I amquite at your service."
We understood from what followed that Mr. Skimpole was to be leftuntil the morning to occupy the two places which had been alreadypaid for. As Ada and I were both in low spirits concerning Richardand very sorry so to part with him, we made it as plain as wepolitely could that we should leave Mr. Skimpole to the Dedlock Armsand retire when the night-travellers were gone.
Richard's high spirits carrying everything before them, we all wentout together to the top of the hill above the village, where he hadordered a gig to wait and where we found a man with a lanternstanding at the head of the gaunt pale horse that had been harnessedto it.
I never shall forget those two seated side by side in the lantern'slight, Richard all flush and fire and laughter, with the reins in hishand; Mr. Vholes quite still, black-gloved, and buttoned up, lookingat him as if he were looking at his prey and charming it. I havebefore me the whole picture of the warm dark night, the summerlightning, the dusty track of road closed in by hedgerows and hightrees, the gaunt pale horse with his ears pricked up, and the drivingaway at speed to Jarndyce and Jarndyce.
My dear girl told me that night how Richard's being thereafterprosperous or ruined, befriended or deserted, could only make thisdifference to her, that the more he needed love from one unchangingheart, the more love that unchanging heart would have to give him;how he thought of her through his present errors, and she would thinkof him at all times--never of herself if she could devote herself tohim, never of her own delights if she could minister to his.
And she kept her word?
I look along the road before me, where the distance already shortensand the journey's end is growing visible; and true and good above thedead sea of the Chancery suit and all the ashy fruit it cast ashore,I think I see my darling.



CHAPTER XXXVIII
A Struggle

When our time came for returning to Bleak House again, we werepunctual to the day and were received with an overpowering welcome. Iwas perfectly restored to health and strength, and finding myhousekeeping keys laid ready for me in my room, rang myself in as ifI had been a new year, with a merry little peal. "Once more, duty,duty, Esther," said I; "and if you are not overjoyed to do it, morethan cheerfully and contentedly, through anything and everything, youought to be. That's all I have to say to you, my dear!"
The first few mornings were mornings of so much bustle and business,devoted to such settlements of accounts, such repeated journeys toand fro between the growlery and all other parts of the house, somany rearrangements of drawers and presses, and such a general newbeginning altogether, that I had not a moment's leisure. But whenthese arrangements were completed and everything was in order, I paida visit of a few hours to London, which something in the letter I haddestroyed at Chesney Wold had induced me to decide upon in my ownmind.
I made Caddy Jellyby--her maiden name was so natural to me that Ialways called her by it--the pretext for this visit and wrote her anote previously asking the favour of her company on a little businessexpedition. Leaving home very early in the morning, I got to Londonby stage-coach in such good time that I got to Newman Street with theday before me.
Caddy, who had not seen me since her wedding-day, was so glad and soaffectionate that I was half inclined to fear I should make herhusband jealous. But he was, in his way, just as bad--I mean as good;and in short it was the old story, and nobody would leave me anypossibility of doing anything meritorious.
The elder Mr. Turveydrop was in bed, I found, and Caddy wasmilling his chocolate, which a melancholy little boy who was anapprentice--it seemed such a curious thing to be apprenticed to thetrade of dancing--was waiting to carry upstairs. Her father-in-lawwas extremely kind and considerate, Caddy told me, and they livedmost happily together. (When she spoke of their living together, shemeant that the old gentleman had all the good things and all the goodlodging, while she and her husband had what they could get, and werepoked into two corner rooms over the Mews.)
"And how is your mama, Caddy?" said I.
"Why, I hear of her, Esther," replied Caddy, "through Pa, but I seevery little of her. We are good friends, I am glad to say, but Mathinks there is something absurd in my having married adancing-master, and she is rather afraid of its extending to her."
It struck me that if Mrs. Jellyby had discharged her own naturalduties and obligations before she swept the horizon with a telescopein search of others, she would have taken the best precautionsagainst becoming absurd, but I need scarcely observe that I kept thisto myself.
"And your papa, Caddy?"
"He comes here every evening," returned Caddy, "and is so fond ofsitting in the corner there that it's a treat to see him."
Looking at the corner, I plainly perceived the mark of Mr. Jellyby'shead against the wall. It was consolatory to know that he had foundsuch a resting-place for it.
"And you, Caddy," said I, "you are always busy, I'll be bound?"
"Well, my dear," returned Caddy, "I am indeed, for to tell you agrand secret, I am qualifying myself to give lessons. Prince's healthis not strong, and I want to be able to assist him. What withschools, and classes here, and private pupils, AND the apprentices,he really has too much to do, poor fellow!"
The notion of the apprentices was still so odd to me that I askedCaddy if there were many of them.
"Four," said Caddy. "One in-door, and three out. They arevery good children; only when they get together they WILLplay--children-like--instead of attending to their work. So thelittle boy you saw just now waltzes by himself in the empty kitchen,and we distribute the others over the house as well as we can."
"That is only for their steps, of course?" said I.
"Only for their steps," said Caddy. "In that way they practise, somany hours at a time, whatever steps they happen to be upon. Theydance in the academy, and at this time of year we do figures at fiveevery morning."
"Why, what a laborious life!" I exclaimed.
"I assure you, my dear," returned Caddy, smiling, "when the out-doorapprentices ring us up in the morning (the bell rings into our room,not to disturb old Mr. Turveydrop), and when I put up the window andsee them standing on the door-step with their little pumps undertheir arms, I am actually reminded of the Sweeps."
All this presented the art to me in a singular light, to be sure.Caddy enjoyed the effect of her communication and cheerfullyrecounted the particulars of her own studies.
"You see, my dear, to save expense I ought to know something of thepiano, and I ought to know something of the kit too, and consequentlyI have to practise those two instruments as well as the details ofour profession. If Ma had been like anybody else, I might have hadsome little musical knowledge to begin upon. However, I hadn't any;and that part of the work is, at first, a little discouraging, I mustallow. But I have a very good ear, and I am used to drudgery--I haveto thank Ma for that, at all events--and where there's a will there'sa way, you know, Esther, the world over." Saying these words, Caddylaughingly sat down at a little jingling square piano and reallyrattled off a quadrille with great spirit. Then she good-humouredlyand blushingly got up again, and while she still laughed herself,said, "Don't laugh at me, please; that's a dear girl!"
I would sooner have cried, but I did neither. I encouraged her andpraised her with all my heart. For I conscientiously believed,dancing-master's wife though she was, and dancing-mistress though inher limited ambition she aspired to be, she had struck out a natural,wholesome, loving course of industry and perseverance that was quiteas good as a mission.
"My dear," said Caddy, delighted, "you can't think how you cheer me.I shall owe you, you don't know how much. What changes, Esther, evenin my small world! You recollect that first night, when I was sounpolite and inky? Who would have thought, then, of my ever teachingpeople to dance, of all other possibilities and impossibilities!"
Her husband, who had left us while we had this chat, now coming back,preparatory to exercising the apprentices in the ball-room, Caddyinformed me she was quite at my disposal. But it was not my time yet,I was glad to tell her, for I should have been vexed to take her awaythen. Therefore we three adjourned to the apprentices together, and Imade one in the dance.
The apprentices were the queerest little people. Besides themelancholy boy, who, I hoped, had not been made so by waltzing alonein the empty kitchen, there were two other boys and one dirty littlelimp girl in a gauzy dress. Such a precocious little girl, with sucha dowdy bonnet on (that, too, of a gauzy texture), who brought hersandalled shoes in an old threadbare velvet reticule. Such meanlittle boys, when they were not dancing, with string, and marbles,and cramp-bones in their pockets, and the most untidy legs andfeet--and heels particularly.
I asked Caddy what had made their parents choose this profession forthem. Caddy said she didn't know; perhaps they were designed forteachers, perhaps for the stage. They were all people in humblecircumstances, and the melancholy boy's mother kept a ginger-beershop.
We danced for an hour with great gravity, the melancholy child doingwonders with his lower extremities, in which there appeared to besome sense of enjoyment though it never rose above his waist. Caddy,while she was observant of her husband and was evidently founded uponhim, had acquired a grace and self-possession of her own, which,united to her pretty face and figure, was uncommonly agreeable. Shealready relieved him of much of the instruction of these youngpeople, and he seldom interfered except to walk his part in thefigure if he had anything to do in it. He always played the tune. Theaffectation of the gauzy child, and her condescension to the boys,was a sight. And thus we danced an hour by the clock.
When the practice was concluded, Caddy's husband made himself readyto go out of town to a school, and Caddy ran away to get ready to goout with me. I sat in the ball-room in the interval, contemplatingthe apprentices. The two out-door boys went upon the staircase to puton their half-boots and pull the in-door boy's hair, as I judged fromthe nature of his objections. Returning with their jackets buttonedand their pumps stuck in them, they then produced packets of coldbread and meat and bivouacked under a painted lyre on the wall. Thelittle gauzy child, having whisked her sandals into the reticule andput on a trodden-down pair of shoes, shook her head into the dowdybonnet at one shake, and answering my inquiry whether she likeddancing by replying, "Not with boys," tied it across her chin, andwent home contemptuous.
"Old Mr. Turveydrop is so sorry," said Caddy, "that he has notfinished dressing yet and cannot have the pleasure of seeing youbefore you go. You are such a favourite of his, Esther."
I expressed myself much obliged to him, but did not think itnecessary to add that I readily dispensed with this attention.
"It takes him a long time to dress," said Caddy, "because he is verymuch looked up to in such things, you know, and has a reputation tosupport. You can't think how kind he is to Pa. He talks to Pa of anevening about the Prince Regent, and I never saw Pa so interested."
There was something in the picture of Mr. Turveydrop bestowing hisdeportment on Mr. Jellyby that quite took my fancy. I asked Caddy ifhe brought her papa out much.
"No," said Caddy, "I don't know that he does that, but he talks toPa, and Pa greatly admires him, and listens, and likes it. Of courseI am aware that Pa has hardly any claims to deportment, but they geton together delightfully. You can't think what good companions theymake. I never saw Pa take snuff before in my life, but he takes onepinch out of Mr. Turveydrop's box regularly and keeps putting it tohis nose and taking it away again all the evening."
That old Mr. Turveydrop should ever, in the chances and changes oflife, have come to the rescue of Mr. Jellyby from Borrioboola-Ghaappeared to me to be one of the pleasantest of oddities.
"As to Peepy," said Caddy with a little hesitation, "whom I was mostafraid of--next to having any family of my own, Esther--as aninconvenience to Mr. Turveydrop, the kindness of the old gentleman tothat child is beyond everything. He asks to see him, my dear! He letshim take the newspaper up to him in bed; he gives him the crusts ofhis toast to eat; he sends him on little errands about the house; hetells him to come to me for sixpences. In short," said Caddycheerily, "and not to prose, I am a very fortunate girl and ought tobe very grateful. Where are we going, Esther?"
"To the Old Street Road," said I, "where I have a few words to say tothe solicitor's clerk who was sent to meet me at the coach-office onthe very day when I came to London and first saw you, my dear. Now Ithink of it, the gentleman who brought us to your house."
"Then, indeed, I seem to be naturally the person to go with you,"returned Caddy.
To the Old Street Road we went and there inquired at Mrs. Guppy'sresidence for Mrs. Guppy. Mrs. Guppy, occupying the parlours andhaving indeed been visibly in danger of cracking herself like a nutin the front-parlour door by peeping out before she was asked for,immediately presented herself and requested us to walk in. She was anold lady in a large cap, with rather a red nose and rather anunsteady eye, but smiling all over. Her close little sitting-room wasprepared for a visit, and there was a portrait of her son in itwhich, I had almost written here, was more like than life: itinsisted upon him with such obstinacy, and was so determined not tolet him off.
Not only was the portrait there, but we found the original there too.He was dressed in a great many colours and was discovered at a tablereading law-papers with his forefinger to his forehead.
"Miss Summerson," said Mr. Guppy, rising, "this is indeed an oasis.Mother, will you be so good as to put a chair for the other lady andget out of the gangway."
Mrs. Guppy, whose incessant smiling gave her quite a waggishappearance, did as her son requested and then sat down in a corner,holding her pocket handkerchief to her chest, like a fomentation,with both hands.
I presented Caddy, and Mr. Guppy said that any friend of mine wasmore than welcome. I then proceeded to the object of my visit.
"I took the liberty of sending you a note, sir," said I.
Mr. Guppy acknowledged the receipt by taking it out of hisbreast-pocket, putting it to his lips, and returning it to his pocketwith a bow. Mr. Guppy's mother was so diverted that she rolled herhead as she smiled and made a silent appeal to Caddy with her elbow.
"Could I speak to you alone for a moment?" said I.
Anything like the jocoseness of Mr. Guppy's mother just now, I thinkI never saw. She made no sound of laughter, but she rolled her head,and shook it, and put her handkerchief to her mouth, and appealed toCaddy with her elbow, and her hand, and her shoulder, and was sounspeakably entertained altogether that it was with some difficultyshe could marshal Caddy through the little folding-door into herbedroom adjoining.
"Miss Summerson," said Mr. Guppy, "you will excuse the waywardness ofa parent ever mindful of a son's appiness. My mother, though highlyexasperating to the feelings, is actuated by maternal dictates."
I could hardly have believed that anybody could in a moment haveturned so red or changed so much as Mr. Guppy did when I now put upmy veil.
"I asked the favour of seeing you for a few moments here," said I,"in preference to calling at Mr. Kenge's because, remembering whatyou said on an occasion when you spoke to me in confidence, I fearedI might otherwise cause you some embarrassment, Mr. Guppy."
I caused him embarrassment enough as it was, I am sure. I never sawsuch faltering, such confusion, such amazement and apprehension.
"Miss Summerson," stammered Mr. Guppy, "I--I--beg your pardon, but inour profession--we--we--find it necessary to be explicit. You havereferred to an occasion, miss, when I--when I did myself the honourof making a declaration which--"
Something seemed to rise in his throat that he could not possiblyswallow. He put his hand there, coughed, made faces, tried again toswallow it, coughed again, made faces again, looked all round theroom, and fluttered his papers.
"A kind of giddy sensation has come upon me, miss," he explained,"which rather knocks me over. I--er--a little subject to this sort ofthing--er--by George!"
I gave him a little time to recover. He consumed it in putting hishand to his forehead and taking it away again, and in backing hischair into the corner behind him.
"My intention was to remark, miss," said Mr. Guppy, "dearme--something bronchial, I think--hem!--to remark that you was sogood on that occasion as to repel and repudiate that declaration.You--you wouldn't perhaps object to admit that? Though no witnessesare present, it might be a satisfaction to--to your mind--if you wasto put in that admission."
"There can be no doubt," said I, "that I declined your proposalwithout any reservation or qualification whatever, Mr. Guppy."
"Thank you, miss," he returned, measuring the table with his troubledhands. "So far that's satisfactory, and it does you credit. Er--thisis certainly bronchial!--must be in the tubes--er--you wouldn'tperhaps be offended if I was to mention--not that it's necessary, foryour own good sense or any person's sense must show 'em that--if Iwas to mention that such declaration on my part was final, and thereterminated?"
"I quite understand that," said I.
"Perhaps--er--it may not be worth the form, but it might be asatisfaction to your mind--perhaps you wouldn't object to admit that,miss?" said Mr. Guppy.
"I admit it most fully and freely," said I.
"Thank you," returned Mr. Guppy. "Very honourable, I am sure. Iregret that my arrangements in life, combined with circumstances overwhich I have no control, will put it out of my power ever to fallback upon that offer or to renew it in any shape or form whatever,but it will ever be a retrospect entwined--er--with friendship'sbowers." Mr. Guppy's bronchitis came to his relief and stopped hismeasurement of the table.
"I may now perhaps mention what I wished to say to you?" I began.
"I shall be honoured, I am sure," said Mr. Guppy. "I am so persuadedthat your own good sense and right feeling, miss, will--will keep youas square as possible--that I can have nothing but pleasure, I amsure, in hearing any observations you may wish to offer."
"You were so good as to imply, on that occasion--"
"Excuse me, miss," said Mr. Guppy, "but we had better not travel outof the record into implication. I cannot admit that I impliedanything."
"You said on that occasion," I recommenced, "that you might possiblyhave the means of advancing my interests and promoting my fortunes bymaking discoveries of which I should be the subject. I presume thatyou founded that belief upon your general knowledge of my being anorphan girl, indebted for everything to the benevolence of Mr.Jarndyce. Now, the beginning and the end of what I have come to begof you is, Mr. Guppy, that you will have the kindness to relinquishall idea of so serving me. I have thought of this sometimes, and Ihave thought of it most lately--since I have been ill. At length Ihave decided, in case you should at any time recall that purpose andact upon it in any way, to come to you and assure you that you arealtogether mistaken. You could make no discovery in reference to methat would do me the least service or give me the least pleasure. Iam acquainted with my personal history, and I have it in my power toassure you that you never can advance my welfare by such means. Youmay, perhaps, have abandoned this project a long time. If so, excusemy giving you unnecessary trouble. If not, I entreat you, on theassurance I have given you, henceforth to lay it aside. I beg you todo this, for my peace."
"I am bound to confess," said Mr. Guppy, "that you express yourself,miss, with that good sense and right feeling for which I gave youcredit. Nothing can be more satisfactory than such right feeling, andif I mistook any intentions on your part just now, I am prepared totender a full apology. I should wish to be understood, miss, ashereby offering that apology--limiting it, as your own good sense andright feeling will point out the necessity of, to the presentproceedings."
I must say for Mr. Guppy that the snuffling manner he had had uponhim improved very much. He seemed truly glad to be able to dosomething I asked, and he looked ashamed.
"If you will allow me to finish what I have to say at once so that Imay have no occasion to resume," I went on, seeing him about tospeak, "you will do me a kindness, sir. I come to you as privately aspossible because you announced this impression of yours to me in aconfidence which I have really wished to respect--and which I alwayshave respected, as you remember. I have mentioned my illness. Therereally is no reason why I should hesitate to say that I know verywell that any little delicacy I might have had in making a request toyou is quite removed. Therefore I make the entreaty I have nowpreferred, and I hope you will have sufficient consideration for meto accede to it."
I must do Mr. Guppy the further justice of saying that he had lookedmore and more ashamed and that he looked most ashamed and veryearnest when he now replied with a burning face, "Upon my word andhonour, upon my life, upon my soul, Miss Summerson, as I am a livingman, I'll act according to your wish! I'll never go another step inopposition to it. I'll take my oath to it if it will be anysatisfaction to you. In what I promise at this present time touchingthe matters now in question," continued Mr. Guppy rapidly, as if hewere repeating a familiar form of words, "I speak the truth, thewhole truth, and nothing but the truth, so--"
"I am quite satisfied," said I, rising at this point, "and I thankyou very much. Caddy, my dear, I am ready!"
Mr. Guppy's mother returned with Caddy (now making me the recipientof her silent laughter and her nudges), and we took our leave. Mr.Guppy saw us to the door with the air of one who was eitherimperfectly awake or walking in his sleep; and we left him there,staring.
But in a minute he came after us down the street without any hat, andwith his long hair all blown about, and stopped us, saying fervently,"Miss Summerson, upon my honour and soul, you may depend upon me!"
"I do," said I, "quite confidently."
"I beg your pardon, miss," said Mr. Guppy, going with one leg andstaying with the other, "but this lady being present--your ownwitness--it might be a satisfaction to your mind (which I should wishto set at rest) if you was to repeat those admissions."
"Well, Caddy," said I, turning to her, "perhaps you will not besurprised when I tell you, my dear, that there never has been anyengagement--"
"No proposal or promise of marriage whatsoever," suggested Mr. Guppy.
"No proposal or promise of marriage whatsoever," said I, "betweenthis gentleman--"
"William Guppy, of Penton Place, Pentonville, in the county ofMiddlesex," he murmured.
"Between this gentleman, Mr. William Guppy, of Penton Place,Pentonville, in the county of Middlesex, and myself."
"Thank you, miss," said Mr. Guppy. "Very full--er--excuse me--lady'sname, Christian and surname both?"
I gave them.
"Married woman, I believe?" said Mr. Guppy. "Married woman. Thankyou. Formerly Caroline Jellyby, spinster, then of Thavies Inn, withinthe city of London, but extra-parochial; now of Newman Street, OxfordStreet. Much obliged."
He ran home and came running back again.
"Touching that matter, you know, I really and truly am very sorrythat my arrangements in life, combined with circumstances over whichI have no control, should prevent a renewal of what was whollyterminated some time back," said Mr. Guppy to me forlornly anddespondently, "but it couldn't be. Now COULD it, you know! I only putit to you."
I replied it certainly could not. The subject did not admit of adoubt. He thanked me and ran to his mother's again--and back again.
"It's very honourable of you, miss, I am sure," said Mr. Guppy. "Ifan altar could be erected in the bowers of friendship--but, upon mysoul, you may rely upon me in every respect save and except thetender passion only!"
The struggle in Mr. Guppy's breast and the numerous oscillations itoccasioned him between his mother's door and us were sufficientlyconspicuous in the windy street (particularly as his hair wantedcutting) to make us hurry away. I did so with a lightened heart; butwhen we last looked back, Mr. Guppy was still oscillating in the sametroubled state of mind.



CHAPTER XXXIX
Attorney and Client

The name of Mr. Vholes, preceded by the legend Ground-Floor, isinscribed upon a door-post in Symond's Inn, Chancery Lane--a little,pale, wall-eyed, woebegone inn like a large dust-binn of twocompartments and a sifter. It looks as if Symond were a sparing manin his way and constructed his inn of old building materials whichtook kindly to the dry rot and to dirt and all things decaying anddismal, and perpetuated Symond's memory with congenial shabbiness.Quartered in this dingy hatchment commemorative of Symond are thelegal bearings of Mr. Vholes.
Mr. Vholes's office, in disposition retiring and in situationretired, is squeezed up in a corner and blinks at a dead wall. Threefeet of knotty-floored dark passage bring the client to Mr. Vholes'sjet-black door, in an angle profoundly dark on the brightestmidsummer morning and encumbered by a black bulk-head of cellaragestaircase against which belated civilians generally strike theirbrows. Mr. Vholes's chambers are on so small a scale that one clerkcan open the door without getting off his stool, while the other whoelbows him at the same desk has equal facilities for poking the fire.A smell as of unwholesome sheep blending with the smell of must anddust is referable to the nightly (and often daily) consumption ofmutton fat in candles and to the fretting of parchment forms andskins in greasy drawers. The atmosphere is otherwise stale and close.The place was last painted or whitewashed beyond the memory of man,and the two chimneys smoke, and there is a loose outer surface ofsoot everywhere, and the dull cracked windows in their heavy frameshave but one piece of character in them, which is a determination tobe always dirty and always shut unless coerced. This accounts for thephenomenon of the weaker of the two usually having a bundle offirewood thrust between its jaws in hot weather.
Mr. Vholes is a very respectable man. He has not a large business,but he is a very respectable man. He is allowed by the greaterattorneys who have made good fortunes or are making them to be a mostrespectable man. He never misses a chance in his practice, which is amark of respectability. He never takes any pleasure, which is anothermark of respectability. He is reserved and serious, which is anothermark of respectability. His digestion is impaired, which is highlyrespectable. And he is making hay of the grass which is flesh, forhis three daughters. And his father is dependent on him in the Valeof Taunton.
The one great principle of the English law is to make business foritself. There is no other principle distinctly, certainly, andconsistently maintained through all its narrow turnings. Viewed bythis light it becomes a coherent scheme and not the monstrous mazethe laity are apt to think it. Let them but once clearly perceivethat its grand principle is to make business for itself at theirexpense, and surely they will cease to grumble.
But not perceiving this quite plainly--only seeing it by halves in aconfused way--the laity sometimes suffer in peace and pocket, with abad grace, and DO grumble very much. Then this respectability of Mr.Vholes is brought into powerful play against them. "Repeal thisstatute, my good sir?" says Mr. Kenge to a smarting client. "Repealit, my dear sir? Never, with my consent. Alter this law, sir, andwhat will be the effect of your rash proceeding on a class ofpractitioners very worthily represented, allow me to say to you, bythe opposite attorney in the case, Mr. Vholes? Sir, that class ofpractitioners would be swept from the face of the earth. Now youcannot afford--I will say, the social system cannot afford--to losean order of men like Mr. Vholes. Diligent, persevering, steady, acutein business. My dear sir, I understand your present feelings againstthe existing state of things, which I grant to be a little hard inyour case; but I can never raise my voice for the demolition of aclass of men like Mr. Vholes." The respectability of Mr. Vholes haseven been cited with crushing effect before Parliamentary committees,as in the following blue minutes of a distinguished attorney'sevidence. "Question (number five hundred and seventeen thousand eighthundred and sixty-nine): If I understand you, these forms of practiceindisputably occasion delay? Answer: Yes, some delay. Question: Andgreat expense? Answer: Most assuredly they cannot be gone through fornothing. Question: And unspeakable vexation? Answer: I am notprepared to say that. They have never given ME any vexation; quitethe contrary. Question: But you think that their abolition woulddamage a class of practitioners? Answer: I have no doubt of it.Question: Can you instance any type of that class? Answer: Yes. Iwould unhesitatingly mention Mr. Vholes. He would be ruined.Question: Mr. Vholes is considered, in the profession, a respectableman? Answer:"--which proved fatal to the inquiry for ten years--"Mr.Vholes is considered, in the profession, a MOST respectable man."
So in familiar conversation, private authorities no lessdisinterested will remark that they don't know what this age iscoming to, that we are plunging down precipices, that now here issomething else gone, that these changes are death to people likeVholes--a man of undoubted respectability, with a father in the Valeof Taunton, and three daughters at home. Take a few steps more inthis direction, say they, and what is to become of Vholes's father?Is he to perish? And of Vholes's daughters? Are they to beshirt-makers, or governesses? As though, Mr. Vholes and his relationsbeing minor cannibal chiefs and it being proposed to abolishcannibalism, indignant champions were to put the case thus: Makeman-eating unlawful, and you starve the Vholeses!
In a word, Mr. Vholes, with his three daughters and his father in theVale of Taunton, is continually doing duty, like a piece of timber,to shore up some decayed foundation that has become a pitfall and anuisance. And with a great many people in a great many instances, thequestion is never one of a change from wrong to right (which is quitean extraneous consideration), but is always one of injury oradvantage to that eminently respectable legion, Vholes.
The Chancellor is, within these ten minutes, "up" for the longvacation. Mr. Vholes, and his young client, and several blue bagshastily stuffed out of all regularity of form, as the larger sort ofserpents are in their first gorged state, have returned to theofficial den. Mr. Vholes, quiet and unmoved, as a man of so muchrespectability ought to be, takes off his close black gloves as if hewere skinning his hands, lifts off his tight hat as if he werescalping himself, and sits down at his desk. The client throws hishat and gloves upon the ground--tosses them anywhere, without lookingafter them or caring where they go; flings himself into a chair, halfsighing and half groaning; rests his aching head upon his hand andlooks the portrait of young despair.
"Again nothing done!" says Richard. "Nothing, nothing done!"
"Don't say nothing done, sir," returns the placid Vholes. "That isscarcely fair, sir, scarcely fair!"
"Why, what IS done?" says Richard, turning gloomily upon him.
"That may not be the whole question," returns Vholes, "The questionmay branch off into what is doing, what is doing?"
"And what is doing?" asks the moody client.
Vholes, sitting with his arms on the desk, quietly bringing the tipsof his five right fingers to meet the tips of his five left fingers,and quietly separating them again, and fixedly and slowly looking athis client, replies, "A good deal is doing, sir. We have put ourshoulders to the wheel, Mr. Carstone, and the wheel is going round."
"Yes, with Ixion on it. How am I to get through the next four or fiveaccursed months?" exclaims the young man, rising from his chair andwalking about the room.
"Mr. C.," returns Vholes, following him close with his eyes whereverhe goes, "your spirits are hasty, and I am sorry for it on youraccount. Excuse me if I recommend you not to chafe so much, not to beso impetuous, not to wear yourself out so. You should have morepatience. You should sustain yourself better."
"I ought to imitate you, in fact, Mr. Vholes?" says Richard, sittingdown again with an impatient laugh and beating the devil's tattoowith his boot on the patternless carpet.
"Sir," returns Vholes, always looking at the client as if he weremaking a lingering meal of him with his eyes as well as with hisprofessional appetite. "Sir," returns Vholes with his inward mannerof speech and his bloodless quietude, "I should not have had thepresumption to propose myself as a model for your imitation or anyman's. Let me but leave the good name to my three daughters, and thatis enough for me; I am not a self-seeker. But since you mention me sopointedly, I will acknowledge that I should like to impart to you alittle of my--come, sir, you are disposed to call it insensibility,and I am sure I have no objection--say insensibility--a little of myinsensibility."
"Mr. Vholes," explains the client, somewhat abashed, "I had nointention to accuse you of insensibility."
"I think you had, sir, without knowing it," returns the equableVholes. "Very naturally. It is my duty to attend to your interestswith a cool head, and I can quite understand that to your excitedfeelings I may appear, at such times as the present, insensible. Mydaughters may know me better; my aged father may know me better. Butthey have known me much longer than you have, and the confiding eyeof affection is not the distrustful eye of business. Not that Icomplain, sir, of the eye of business being distrustful; quite thecontrary. In attending to your interests, I wish to have all possiblechecks upon me; it is right that I should have them; I court inquiry.But your interests demand that I should be cool and methodical, Mr.Carstone; and I cannot be otherwise--no, sir, not even to pleaseyou."
Mr. Vholes, after glancing at the official cat who is patientlywatching a mouse's hole, fixes his charmed gaze again on his youngclient and proceeds in his buttoned-up, half-audible voice as ifthere were an unclean spirit in him that will neither come out norspeak out, "What are you to do, sir, you inquire, during thevacation. I should hope you gentlemen of the army may find many meansof amusing yourselves if you give your minds to it. If you had askedme what I was to do during the vacation, I could have answered youmore readily. I am to attend to your interests. I am to be foundhere, day by day, attending to your interests. That is my duty, Mr.C., and term-time or vacation makes no difference to me. If you wishto consult me as to your interests, you will find me here at alltimes alike. Other professional men go out of town. I don't. Not thatI blame them for going; I merely say I don't go. This desk is yourrock, sir!"
Mr. Vholes gives it a rap, and it sounds as hollow as a coffin. Notto Richard, though. There is encouragement in the sound to him.Perhaps Mr. Vholes knows there is.
"I am perfectly aware, Mr. Vholes," says Richard, more familiarly andgood-humouredly, "that you are the most reliable fellow in the worldand that to have to do with you is to have to do with a man ofbusiness who is not to be hoodwinked. But put yourself in my case,dragging on this dislocated life, sinking deeper and deeper intodifficulty every day, continually hoping and continuallydisappointed, conscious of change upon change for the worse inmyself, and of no change for the better in anything else, and youwill find it a dark-looking case sometimes, as I do."
"You know," says Mr. Vholes, "that I never give hopes, sir. I toldyou from the first, Mr. C., that I never give hopes. Particularly ina case like this, where the greater part of the costs comes out ofthe estate, I should not be considerate of my good name if I gavehopes. It might seem as if costs were my object. Still, when you saythere is no change for the better, I must, as a bare matter of fact,deny that."
"Aye?" returns Richard, brightening. "But how do you make it out?"
"Mr. Carstone, you are represented by--"
"You said just now--a rock."
"Yes, sir," says Mr. Vholes, gently shaking his head and rapping thehollow desk, with a sound as if ashes were falling on ashes, and duston dust, "a rock. That's something. You are separately represented,and no longer hidden and lost in the interests of others. THAT'Ssomething. The suit does not sleep; we wake it up, we air it, we walkit about. THAT'S something. It's not all Jarndyce, in fact as well asin name. THAT'S something. Nobody has it all his own way now, sir.And THAT'S something, surely."
Richard, his face flushing suddenly, strikes the desk with hisclenched hand.
"Mr. Vholes! If any man had told me when I first went to JohnJarndyce's house that he was anything but the disinterested friend heseemed--that he was what he has gradually turned out to be--I couldhave found no words strong enough to repel the slander; I could nothave defended him too ardently. So little did I know of the world!Whereas now I do declare to you that he becomes to me the embodimentof the suit; that in place of its being an abstraction, it is JohnJarndyce; that the more I suffer, the more indignant I am with him;that every new delay and every new disappointment is only a newinjury from John Jarndyce's hand."
"No, no," says Vholes. "Don't say so. We ought to have patience, allof us. Besides, I never disparage, sir. I never disparage."
"Mr. Vholes," returns the angry client. "You know as well as I thathe would have strangled the suit if he could."
"He was not active in it," Mr. Vholes admits with an appearance ofreluctance. "He certainly was not active in it. But however, buthowever, he might have had amiable intentions. Who can read theheart, Mr. C.!"
"You can," returns Richard.
"I, Mr. C.?"
"Well enough to know what his intentions were. Are or are not ourinterests conflicting? Tell--me--that!" says Richard, accompanyinghis last three words with three raps on his rock of trust.
"Mr. C.," returns Vholes, immovable in attitude and never winking hishungry eyes, "I should be wanting in my duty as your professionaladviser, I should be departing from my fidelity to your interests, ifI represented those interests as identical with the interests of Mr.Jarndyce. They are no such thing, sir. I never impute motives; I bothhave and am a father, and I never impute motives. But I must notshrink from a professional duty, even if it sows dissensions infamilies. I understand you to be now consulting me professionally asto your interests? You are so? I reply, then, they are not identicalwith those of Mr. Jarndyce."
"Of course they are not!" cries Richard. "You found that out longago."
"Mr. C.," returns Vholes, "I wish to say no more of any third partythan is necessary. I wish to leave my good name unsullied, togetherwith any little property of which I may become possessed throughindustry and perseverance, to my daughters Emma, Jane, and Caroline.I also desire to live in amity with my professional brethren. WhenMr. Skimpole did me the honour, sir--I will not say the very highhonour, for I never stoop to flattery--of bringing us together inthis room, I mentioned to you that I could offer no opinion or adviceas to your interests while those interests were entrusted to anothermember of the profession. And I spoke in such terms as I was bound tospeak of Kenge and Carboy's office, which stands high. You, sir,thought fit to withdraw your interests from that keeping neverthelessand to offer them to me. You brought them with clean hands, sir, andI accepted them with clean hands. Those interests are now paramountin this office. My digestive functions, as you may have heard memention, are not in a good state, and rest might improve them; but Ishall not rest, sir, while I am your representative. Whenever youwant me, you will find me here. Summon me anywhere, and I will come.During the long vacation, sir, I shall devote my leisure to studyingyour interests more and more closely and to making arrangements formoving heaven and earth (including, of course, the Chancellor) afterMichaelmas term; and when I ultimately congratulate you, sir," saysMr. Vholes with the severity of a determined man, "when I ultimatelycongratulate you, sir, with all my heart, on your accession tofortune--which, but that I never give hopes, I might say somethingfurther about--you will owe me nothing beyond whatever little balancemay be then outstanding of the costs as between solicitor and clientnot included in the taxed costs allowed out of the estate. I pretendto no claim upon you, Mr. C., but for the zealous and activedischarge--not the languid and routine discharge, sir: that muchcredit I stipulate for--of my professional duty. My duty prosperouslyended, all between us is ended."
Vholes finally adds, by way of rider to this declaration of hisprinciples, that as Mr. Carstone is about to rejoin his regiment,perhaps Mr. C. will favour him with an order on his agent for twentypounds on account.
"For there have been many little consultations and attendances oflate, sir," observes Vholes, turning over the leaves of his diary,"and these things mount up, and I don't profess to be a man ofcapital. When we first entered on our present relations I stated toyou openly--it is a principle of mine that there never can be toomuch openness between solicitor and client--that I was not a man ofcapital and that if capital was your object you had better leave yourpapers in Kenge's office. No, Mr. C., you will find none of theadvantages or disadvantages of capital here, sir. This," Vholes givesthe desk one hollow blow again, "is your rock; it pretends to benothing more."
The client, with his dejection insensibly relieved and his vaguehopes rekindled, takes pen and ink and writes the draft, not withoutperplexed consideration and calculation of the date it may bear,implying scant effects in the agent's hands. All the while, Vholes,buttoned up in body and mind, looks at him attentively. All thewhile, Vholes's official cat watches the mouse's hole.
Lastly, the client, shaking hands, beseeches Mr. Vholes, for heaven'ssake and earth's sake, to do his utmost to "pull him through" theCourt of Chancery. Mr. Vholes, who never gives hopes, lays his palmupon the client's shoulder and answers with a smile, "Always here,sir. Personally, or by letter, you will always find me here, sir,with my shoulder to the wheel." Thus they part, and Vholes, leftalone, employs himself in carrying sundry little matters out of hisdiary into his draft bill book for the ultimate behoof of his threedaughters. So might an industrious fox or bear make up his account ofchickens or stray travellers with an eye to his cubs, not todisparage by that word the three raw-visaged, lank, and buttoned-upmaidens who dwell with the parent Vholes in an earthy cottagesituated in a damp garden at Kennington.
Richard, emerging from the heavy shade of Symond's Inn into thesunshine of Chancery Lane--for there happens to be sunshine thereto-day--walks thoughtfully on, and turns into Lincoln's Inn, andpasses under the shadow of the Lincoln's Inn trees. On many suchloungers have the speckled shadows of those trees often fallen; onthe like bent head, the bitten nail, the lowering eye, the lingeringstep, the purposeless and dreamy air, the good consuming andconsumed, the life turned sour. This lounger is not shabby yet, butthat may come. Chancery, which knows no wisdom but in precedent, isvery rich in such precedents; and why should one be different fromten thousand?
Yet the time is so short since his depreciation began that as hesaunters away, reluctant to leave the spot for some long monthstogether, though he hates it, Richard himself may feel his own caseas if it were a startling one. While his heart is heavy withcorroding care, suspense, distrust, and doubt, it may have room forsome sorrowful wonder when he recalls how different his first visitthere, how different he, how different all the colours of his mind.But injustice breeds injustice; the fighting with shadows and beingdefeated by them necessitates the setting up of substances to combat;from the impalpable suit which no man alive can understand, the timefor that being long gone by, it has become a gloomy relief to turn tothe palpable figure of the friend who would have saved him from thisruin and make HIM his enemy. Richard has told Vholes the truth. Is hein a hardened or a softened mood, he still lays his injuries equallyat that door; he was thwarted, in that quarter, of a set purpose, andthat purpose could only originate in the one subject that isresolving his existence into itself; besides, it is a justificationto him in his own eyes to have an embodied antagonist and oppressor.
Is Richard a monster in all this, or would Chancery be found rich insuch precedents too if they could be got for citation from theRecording Angel?
Two pairs of eyes not unused to such people look after him, as,biting his nails and brooding, he crosses the square and is swallowedup by the shadow of the southern gateway. Mr. Guppy and Mr. Weevleare the possessors of those eyes, and they have been leaning inconversation against the low stone parapet under the trees. He passesclose by them, seeing nothing but the ground.
"William," says Mr. Weevle, adjusting his whiskers, "there'scombustion going on there! It's not a case of spontaneous, but it'ssmouldering combustion it is."
"Ah!" says Mr. Guppy. "He wouldn't keep out of Jarndyce, and Isuppose he's over head and ears in debt. I never knew much of him. Hewas as high as the monument when he was on trial at our place. A goodriddance to me, whether as clerk or client! Well, Tony, that as I wasmentioning is what they're up to."
Mr. Guppy, refolding his arms, resettles himself against the parapet,as resuming a conversation of interest.
"They are still up to it, sir," says Mr. Guppy, "still taking stock,still examining papers, still going over the heaps and heaps ofrubbish. At this rate they'll be at it these seven years."
"And Small is helping?"
"Small left us at a week's notice. Told Kenge his grandfather'sbusiness was too much for the old gentleman and he could betterhimself by undertaking it. There had been a coolness between myselfand Small on account of his being so close. But he said you and Ibegan it, and as he had me there--for we did--I put our acquaintanceon the old footing. That's how I come to know what they're up to."
"You haven't looked in at all?"
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy, a little disconcerted, "to be unreserved withyou, I don't greatly relish the house, except in your company, andtherefore I have not; and therefore I proposed this littleappointment for our fetching away your things. There goes the hour bythe clock! Tony"--Mr. Guppy becomes mysteriously and tenderlyeloquent--"it is necessary that I should impress upon your mind oncemore that circumstances over which I have no control have made amelancholy alteration in my most cherished plans and in thatunrequited image which I formerly mentioned to you as a friend. Thatimage is shattered, and that idol is laid low. My only wish now inconnexion with the objects which I had an idea of carrying out in thecourt with your aid as a friend is to let 'em alone and bury 'em inoblivion. Do you think it possible, do you think it at all likely (Iput it to you, Tony, as a friend), from your knowledge of thatcapricious and deep old character who fell a prey to the--spontaneouselement, do you, Tony, think it at all likely that on second thoughtshe put those letters away anywhere, after you saw him alive, and thatthey were not destroyed that night?"
Mr. Weevle reflects for some time. Shakes his head. Decidedly thinksnot.
"Tony," says Mr. Guppy as they walk towards the court, "once againunderstand me, as a friend. Without entering into furtherexplanations, I may repeat that the idol is down. I have no purposeto serve now but burial in oblivion. To that I have pledged myself. Iowe it to myself, and I owe it to the shattered image, as also to thecircumstances over which I have no control. If you was to express tome by a gesture, by a wink, that you saw lying anywhere in your latelodgings any papers that so much as looked like the papers inquestion, I would pitch them into the fire, sir, on my ownresponsibility."
Mr. Weevle nods. Mr. Guppy, much elevated in his own opinion byhaving delivered these observations, with an air in part forensic andin part romantic--this gentleman having a passion for conductinganything in the form of an examination, or delivering anything in theform of a summing up or a speech--accompanies his friend with dignityto the court.
Never since it has been a court has it had such a Fortunatus' purseof gossip as in the proceedings at the rag and bottle shop.Regularly, every morning at eight, is the elder Mr. Smallweed broughtdown to the corner and carried in, accompanied by Mrs. Smallweed,Judy, and Bart; and regularly, all day, do they all remain thereuntil nine at night, solaced by gipsy dinners, not abundant inquantity, from the cook's shop, rummaging and searching, digging,delving, and diving among the treasures of the late lamented. Whatthose treasures are they keep so secret that the court is maddened.In its delirium it imagines guineas pouring out of tea-pots,crown-pieces overflowing punch-bowls, old chairs and mattressesstuffed with Bank of England notes. It possesses itself of thesixpenny history (with highly coloured folding frontispiece) of Mr.Daniel Dancer and his sister, and also of Mr. Elwes, of Suffolk, andtransfers all the facts from those authentic narratives to Mr. Krook.Twice when the dustman is called in to carry off a cartload of oldpaper, ashes, and broken bottles, the whole court assembles and priesinto the baskets as they come forth. Many times the two gentlemen whowrite with the ravenous little pens on the tissue-paper are seenprowling in the neighbourhood--shy of each other, their latepartnership being dissolved. The Sol skilfully carries a vein of theprevailing interest through the Harmonic nights. Little Swills, inwhat are professionally known as "patter" allusions to the subject,is received with loud applause; and the same vocalist "gags" in theregular business like a man inspired. Even Miss M. Melvilleson, inthe revived Caledonian melody of "We're a-Nodding," points thesentiment that "the dogs love broo" (whatever the nature of thatrefreshment may be) with such archness and such a turn of the headtowards next door that she is immediately understood to mean Mr.Smallweed loves to find money, and is nightly honoured with a doubleencore. For all this, the court discovers nothing; and as Mrs. Piperand Mrs. Perkins now communicate to the late lodger whose appearanceis the signal for a general rally, it is in one continual ferment todiscover everything, and more.
Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy, with every eye in the court's head uponthem, knock at the closed door of the late lamented's house, in ahigh state of popularity. But being contrary to the court'sexpectation admitted, they immediately become unpopular and areconsidered to mean no good.
The shutters are more or less closed all over the house, and theground-floor is sufficiently dark to require candles. Introduced intothe back shop by Mr. Smallweed the younger, they, fresh from thesunlight, can at first see nothing save darkness and shadows; butthey gradually discern the elder Mr. Smallweed seated in his chairupon the brink of a well or grave of waste-paper, the virtuous Judygroping therein like a female sexton, and Mrs. Smallweed on the levelground in the vicinity snowed up in a heap of paper fragments, print,and manuscript which would appear to be the accumulated complimentsthat have been sent flying at her in the course of the day. The wholeparty, Small included, are blackened with dust and dirt and present afiendish appearance not relieved by the general aspect of the room.There is more litter and lumber in it than of old, and it is dirtierif possible; likewise, it is ghostly with traces of its deadinhabitant and even with his chalked writing on the wall.
On the entrance of visitors, Mr. Smallweed and Judy simultaneouslyfold their arms and stop in their researches.
"Aha!" croaks the old gentleman. "How de do, gentlemen, how de do!Come to fetch your property, Mr. Weevle? That's well, that's well.Ha! Ha! We should have been forced to sell you up, sir, to pay yourwarehouse room if you had left it here much longer. You feel quite athome here again, I dare say? Glad to see you, glad to see you!"
Mr. Weevle, thanking him, casts an eye about. Mr. Guppy's eye followsMr. Weevle's eye. Mr. Weevle's eye comes back without any newintelligence in it. Mr. Guppy's eye comes back and meets Mr.Smallweed's eye. That engaging old gentleman is still murmuring, likesome wound-up instrument running down, "How de do, sir--howde--how--" And then having run down, he lapses into grinning silence,as Mr. Guppy starts at seeing Mr. Tulkinghorn standing in thedarkness opposite with his hands behind him.
"Gentleman so kind as to act as my solicitor," says GrandfatherSmallweed. "I am not the sort of client for a gentleman of such note,but he is so good!"
Mr. Guppy, slightly nudging his friend to take another look, makes ashuffling bow to Mr. Tulkinghorn, who returns it with an easy nod.Mr. Tulkinghorn is looking on as if he had nothing else to do andwere rather amused by the novelty.
"A good deal of property here, sir, I should say," Mr. Guppy observesto Mr. Smallweed.
"Principally rags and rubbish, my dear friend! Rags and rubbish! Meand Bart and my granddaughter Judy are endeavouring to make out aninventory of what's worth anything to sell. But we haven't come tomuch as yet; we--haven't--come--to--hah!"
Mr. Smallweed has run down again, while Mr. Weevle's eye, attended byMr. Guppy's eye, has again gone round the room and come back.
"Well, sir," says Mr. Weevle. "We won't intrude any longer if you'llallow us to go upstairs."
"Anywhere, my dear sir, anywhere! You're at home. Make yourself so,pray!"
As they go upstairs, Mr. Guppy lifts his eyebrows inquiringly andlooks at Tony. Tony shakes his head. They find the old room very dulland dismal, with the ashes of the fire that was burning on thatmemorable night yet in the discoloured grate. They have a greatdisinclination to touch any object, and carefully blow the dust fromit first. Nor are they desirous to prolong their visit, packing thefew movables with all possible speed and never speaking above awhisper.
"Look here," says Tony, recoiling. "Here's that horrible cat comingin!"
Mr. Guppy retreats behind a chair. "Small told me of her. She wentleaping and bounding and tearing about that night like a dragon, andgot out on the house-top, and roamed about up there for a fortnight,and then came tumbling down the chimney very thin. Did you ever seesuch a brute? Looks as if she knew all about it, don't she? Almostlooks as if she was Krook. Shoohoo! Get out, you goblin!"
Lady Jane, in the doorway, with her tiger snarl from ear to ear andher club of a tail, shows no intention of obeying; but Mr.Tulkinghorn stumbling over her, she spits at his rusty legs, andswearing wrathfully, takes her arched back upstairs. Possibly to roamthe house-tops again and return by the chimney.
"Mr. Guppy," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "could I have a word with you?"
Mr. Guppy is engaged in collecting the Galaxy Gallery of BritishBeauty from the wall and depositing those works of art in their oldignoble band-box. "Sir," he returns, reddening, "I wish to act withcourtesy towards every member of the profession, and especially, I amsure, towards a member of it so well known as yourself--I will trulyadd, sir, so distinguished as yourself. Still, Mr. Tulkinghorn, sir,I must stipulate that if you have any word with me, that word isspoken in the presence of my friend."
"Oh, indeed?" says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
"Yes, sir. My reasons are not of a personal nature at all, but theyare amply sufficient for myself."
"No doubt, no doubt." Mr. Tulkinghorn is as imperturbable as thehearthstone to which he has quietly walked. "The matter is not ofthat consequence that I need put you to the trouble of making anyconditions, Mr. Guppy." He pauses here to smile, and his smile is asdull and rusty as his pantaloons. "You are to be congratulated, Mr.Guppy; you are a fortunate young man, sir."
"Pretty well so, Mr. Tulkinghorn; I don't complain."
"Complain? High friends, free admission to great houses, and accessto elegant ladies! Why, Mr. Guppy, there are people in London whowould give their ears to be you."
Mr. Guppy, looking as if he would give his own reddening and stillreddening ears to be one of those people at present instead ofhimself, replies, "Sir, if I attend to my profession and do what isright by Kenge and Carboy, my friends and acquaintances are of noconsequence to them nor to any member of the profession, notexcepting Mr. Tulkinghorn of the Fields. I am not under anyobligation to explain myself further; and with all respect for you,sir, and without offence--I repeat, without offence--"
"Oh, certainly!"
"--I don't intend to do it."
"Quite so," says Mr. Tulkinghorn with a calm nod. "Very good; I seeby these portraits that you take a strong interest in the fashionablegreat, sir?"
He addresses this to the astounded Tony, who admits the softimpeachment.
"A virtue in which few Englishmen are deficient," observes Mr.Tulkinghorn. He has been standing on the hearthstone with his back tothe smoked chimney-piece, and now turns round with his glasses to hiseyes. "Who is this? 'Lady Dedlock.' Ha! A very good likeness in itsway, but it wants force of character. Good day to you, gentlemen;good day!"
When he has walked out, Mr. Guppy, in a great perspiration, nerveshimself to the hasty completion of the taking down of the GalaxyGallery, concluding with Lady Dedlock.
"Tony," he says hurriedly to his astonished companion, "let us bequick in putting the things together and in getting out of thisplace. It were in vain longer to conceal from you, Tony, that betweenmyself and one of the members of a swan-like aristocracy whom I nowhold in my hand, there has been undivulged communication andassociation. The time might have been when I might have revealed itto you. It never will be more. It is due alike to the oath I havetaken, alike to the shattered idol, and alike to circumstances overwhich I have no control, that the whole should be buried in oblivion.I charge you as a friend, by the interest you have ever testified inthe fashionable intelligence, and by any little advances with which Imay have been able to accommodate you, so to bury it without a wordof inquiry!"
This charge Mr. Guppy delivers in a state little short of forensiclunacy, while his friend shows a dazed mind in his whole head of hairand even in his cultivated whiskers.



CHAPTER XL
National and Domestic

England has been in a dreadful state for some weeks. Lord Coodlewould go out, Sir Thomas Doodle wouldn't come in, and there beingnobody in Great Britain (to speak of) except Coodle and Doodle, therehas been no government. It is a mercy that the hostile meetingbetween those two great men, which at one time seemed inevitable, didnot come off, because if both pistols had taken effect, and Coodleand Doodle had killed each other, it is to be presumed that Englandmust have waited to be governed until young Coodle and young Doodle,now in frocks and long stockings, were grown up. This stupendousnational calamity, however, was averted by Lord Coodle's making thetimely discovery that if in the heat of debate he had said that hescorned and despised the whole ignoble career of Sir Thomas Doodle,he had merely meant to say that party differences should never inducehim to withhold from it the tribute of his warmest admiration; whileit as opportunely turned out, on the other hand, that Sir ThomasDoodle had in his own bosom expressly booked Lord Coodle to go downto posterity as the mirror of virtue and honour. Still England hasbeen some weeks in the dismal strait of having no pilot (as was wellobserved by Sir Leicester Dedlock) to weather the storm; and themarvellous part of the matter is that England has not appeared tocare very much about it, but has gone on eating and drinking andmarrying and giving in marriage as the old world did in the daysbefore the flood. But Coodle knew the danger, and Doodle knew thedanger, and all their followers and hangers-on had the clearestpossible perception of the danger. At last Sir Thomas Doodle has notonly condescended to come in, but has done it handsomely, bringing inwith him all his nephews, all his male cousins, and all hisbrothers-in-law. So there is hope for the old ship yet.
Doodle has found that he must throw himself upon the country, chieflyin the form of sovereigns and beer. In this metamorphosed state he isavailable in a good many places simultaneously and can throw himselfupon a considerable portion of the country at one time. Britanniabeing much occupied in pocketing Doodle in the form of sovereigns,and swallowing Doodle in the form of beer, and in swearing herselfblack in the face that she does neither--plainly to the advancementof her glory and morality--the London season comes to a sudden end,through all the Doodleites and Coodleites dispersing to assistBritannia in those religious exercises.
Hence Mrs. Rouncewell, housekeeper at Chesney Wold, foresees, thoughno instructions have yet come down, that the family may shortly beexpected, together with a pretty large accession of cousins andothers who can in any way assist the great Constitutional work. Andhence the stately old dame, taking Time by the forelock, leads him upand down the staircases, and along the galleries and passages, andthrough the rooms, to witness before he grows any older thateverything is ready, that floors are rubbed bright, carpets spread,curtains shaken out, beds puffed and patted, still-room and kitchencleared for action--all things prepared as beseems the Dedlockdignity.
This present summer evening, as the sun goes down, the preparationsare complete. Dreary and solemn the old house looks, with so manyappliances of habitation and with no inhabitants except the picturedforms upon the walls. So did these come and go, a Dedlock inpossession might have ruminated passing along; so did they see thisgallery hushed and quiet, as I see it now; so think, as I think, ofthe gap that they would make in this domain when they were gone; sofind it, as I find it, difficult to believe that it could be withoutthem; so pass from my world, as I pass from theirs, now closing thereverberating door; so leave no blank to miss them, and so die.
Through some of the fiery windows beautiful from without, and set, atthis sunset hour, not in dull-grey stone but in a glorious house ofgold, the light excluded at other windows pours in rich, lavish,overflowing like the summer plenty in the land. Then do the frozenDedlocks thaw. Strange movements come upon their features as theshadows of leaves play there. A dense justice in a corner is beguiledinto a wink. A staring baronet, with a truncheon, gets a dimple inhis chin. Down into the bosom of a stony shepherdess there steals afleck of light and warmth that would have done it good a hundredyears ago. One ancestress of Volumnia, in high-heeled shoes, verylike her--casting the shadow of that virgin event before her full twocenturies--shoots out into a halo and becomes a saint. A maid ofhonour of the court of Charles the Second, with large round eyes (andother charms to correspond), seems to bathe in glowing water, and itripples as it glows.
But the fire of the sun is dying. Even now the floor is dusky, andshadow slowly mounts the walls, bringing the Dedlocks down like ageand death. And now, upon my Lady's picture over the greatchimney-piece, a weird shade falls from some old tree, that turns itpale, and flutters it, and looks as if a great arm held a veil orhood, watching an opportunity to draw it over her. Higher and darkerrises shadow on the wall--now a red gloom on the ceiling--now thefire is out.
All that prospect, which from the terrace looked so near, has movedsolemnly away and changed--not the first nor the last of beautifulthings that look so near and will so change--into a distant phantom.Light mists arise, and the dew falls, and all the sweet scents in thegarden are heavy in the air. Now the woods settle into great massesas if they were each one profound tree. And now the moon rises toseparate them, and to glimmer here and there in horizontal linesbehind their stems, and to make the avenue a pavement of light amonghigh cathedral arches fantastically broken.
Now the moon is high; and the great house, needing habitation morethan ever, is like a body without life. Now it is even awful,stealing through it, to think of the live people who have slept inthe solitary bedrooms, to say nothing of the dead. Now is the timefor shadow, when every corner is a cavern and every downward step apit, when the stained glass is reflected in pale and faded hues uponthe floors, when anything and everything can be made of the heavystaircase beams excepting their own proper shapes, when the armourhas dull lights upon it not easily to be distinguished from stealthymovement, and when barred helmets are frightfully suggestive of headsinside. But of all the shadows in Chesney Wold, the shadow in thelong drawing-room upon my Lady's picture is the first to come, thelast to be disturbed. At this hour and by this light it changes intothreatening hands raised up and menacing the handsome face with everybreath that stirs.
"She is not well, ma'am," says a groom in Mrs. Rouncewell'saudience-chamber.
"My Lady not well! What's the matter?"
"Why, my Lady has been but poorly, ma'am, since she was last here--Idon't mean with the family, ma'am, but when she was here as a bird ofpassage like. My Lady has not been out much, for her, and has kepther room a good deal."
"Chesney Wold, Thomas," rejoins the housekeeper with proudcomplacency, "will set my Lady up! There is no finer air and nohealthier soil in the world!"
Thomas may have his own personal opinions on this subject, probablyhints them in his manner of smoothing his sleek head from the nape ofhis neck to his temples, but he forbears to express them further andretires to the servants' hall to regale on cold meat-pie and ale.
This groom is the pilot-fish before the nobler shark. Next evening,down come Sir Leicester and my Lady with their largest retinue, anddown come the cousins and others from all the points of the compass.Thenceforth for some weeks backward and forward rush mysterious menwith no names, who fly about all those particular parts of thecountry on which Doodle is at present throwing himself in anauriferous and malty shower, but who are merely persons of a restlessdisposition and never do anything anywhere.
On these national occasions Sir Leicester finds the cousins useful. Abetter man than the Honourable Bob Stables to meet the Hunt atdinner, there could not possibly be. Better got up gentlemen than theother cousins to ride over to polling-booths and hustings here andthere, and show themselves on the side of England, it would be hardto find. Volumnia is a little dim, but she is of the true descent;and there are many who appreciate her sprightly conversation, herFrench conundrums so old as to have become in the cycles of timealmost new again, the honour of taking the fair Dedlock in to dinner,or even the privilege of her hand in the dance. On these nationaloccasions dancing may be a patriotic service, and Volumnia isconstantly seen hopping about for the good of an ungrateful andunpensioning country.
My Lady takes no great pains to entertain the numerous guests, andbeing still unwell, rarely appears until late in the day. But at allthe dismal dinners, leaden lunches, basilisk balls, and othermelancholy pageants, her mere appearance is a relief. As to SirLeicester, he conceives it utterly impossible that anything can bewanting, in any direction, by any one who has the good fortune to bereceived under that roof; and in a state of sublime satisfaction, hemoves among the company, a magnificent refrigerator.
Daily the cousins trot through dust and canter over roadside turf,away to hustings and polling-booths (with leather gloves andhunting-whips for the counties and kid gloves and riding-canes forthe boroughs), and daily bring back reports on which Sir Leicesterholds forth after dinner. Daily the restless men who have nooccupation in life present the appearance of being rather busy. DailyVolumnia has a little cousinly talk with Sir Leicester on the stateof the nation, from which Sir Leicester is disposed to conclude thatVolumnia is a more reflecting woman than he had thought her.
"How are we getting on?" says Miss Volumnia, clasping her hands. "AREwe safe?"
The mighty business is nearly over by this time, and Doodle willthrow himself off the country in a few days more. Sir Leicester hasjust appeared in the long drawing-room after dinner, a brightparticular star surrounded by clouds of cousins.
"Volumnia," replies Sir Leicester, who has a list in his hand, "weare doing tolerably."
"Only tolerably!"
Although it is summer weather, Sir Leicester always has his ownparticular fire in the evening. He takes his usual screened seat nearit and repeats with much firmness and a little displeasure, as whoshould say, I am not a common man, and when I say tolerably, it mustnot be understood as a common expression, "Volumnia, we are doingtolerably."
"At least there is no opposition to YOU," Volumnia asserts withconfidence.
"No, Volumnia. This distracted country has lost its senses in manyrespects, I grieve to say, but--"
"It is not so mad as that. I am glad to hear it!"
Volumnia's finishing the sentence restores her to favour. SirLeicester, with a gracious inclination of his head, seems to say tohimself, "A sensible woman this, on the whole, though occasionallyprecipitate."
In fact, as to this question of opposition, the fair Dedlock'sobservation was superfluous, Sir Leicester on these occasions alwaysdelivering in his own candidateship, as a kind of handsome wholesaleorder to be promptly executed. Two other little seats that belong tohim he treats as retail orders of less importance, merely sendingdown the men and signifying to the tradespeople, "You will have thegoodness to make these materials into two members of Parliament andto send them home when done."
"I regret to say, Volumnia, that in many places the people have showna bad spirit, and that this opposition to the government has been ofa most determined and most implacable description."
"W-r-retches!" says Volumnia.
"Even," proceeds Sir Leicester, glancing at the circumjacent cousinson sofas and ottomans, "even in many--in fact, in most--of thoseplaces in which the government has carried it against a faction--"
(Note, by the way, that the Coodleites are always a faction with theDoodleites, and that the Doodleites occupy exactly the same positiontowards the Coodleites.)
"--Even in them I am shocked, for the credit of Englishmen, to beconstrained to inform you that the party has not triumphed withoutbeing put to an enormous expense. Hundreds," says Sir Leicester,eyeing the cousins with increasing dignity and swelling indignation,"hundreds of thousands of pounds!"
If Volumnia have a fault, it is the fault of being a trifle tooinnocent, seeing that the innocence which would go extremely wellwith a sash and tucker is a little out of keeping with the rouge andpearl necklace. Howbeit, impelled by innocence, she asks, "What for?"
"Volumnia," remonstrates Sir Leicester with his utmost severity."Volumnia!"
"No, no, I don't mean what for," cries Volumnia with her favouritelittle scream. "How stupid I am! I mean what a pity!"
"I am glad," returns Sir Leicester, "that you do mean what a pity."
Volumnia hastens to express her opinion that the shocking peopleought to be tried as traitors and made to support the party.
"I am glad, Volumnia," repeats Sir Leicester, unmindful of thesemollifying sentiments, "that you do mean what a pity. It isdisgraceful to the electors. But as you, though inadvertently andwithout intending so unreasonable a question, asked me 'what for?'let me reply to you. For necessary expenses. And I trust to your goodsense, Volumnia, not to pursue the subject, here or elsewhere."
Sir Leicester feels it incumbent on him to observe a crushing aspecttowards Volumnia because it is whispered abroad that these necessaryexpenses will, in some two hundred election petitions, beunpleasantly connected with the word bribery, and because somegraceless jokers have consequently suggested the omission from theChurch service of the ordinary supplication in behalf of the HighCourt of Parliament and have recommended instead that the prayers ofthe congregation be requested for six hundred and fifty-eightgentlemen in a very unhealthy state.
"I suppose," observes Volumnia, having taken a little time to recoverher spirits after her late castigation, "I suppose Mr. Tulkinghornhas been worked to death."
"I don't know," says Sir Leicester, opening his eyes, "why Mr.Tulkinghorn should be worked to death. I don't know what Mr.Tulkinghorn's engagements may be. He is not a candidate."
Volumnia had thought he might have been employed. Sir Leicester coulddesire to know by whom, and what for. Volumnia, abashed again,suggests, by somebody--to advise and make arrangements. Sir Leicesteris not aware that any client of Mr. Tulkinghorn has been in need ofhis assistance.
Lady Dedlock, seated at an open window with her arm upon itscushioned ledge and looking out at the evening shadows falling on thepark, has seemed to attend since the lawyer's name was mentioned.
A languid cousin with a moustache in a state of extreme debility nowobserves from his couch that man told him ya'as'dy that Tulkinghornhad gone down t' that iron place t' give legal 'pinion 'boutsomething, and that contest being over t' day, 'twould be highlyjawlly thing if Tulkinghorn should 'pear with news that Coodle manwas floored.
Mercury in attendance with coffee informs Sir Leicester, hereupon,that Mr. Tulkinghorn has arrived and is taking dinner. My Lady turnsher head inward for the moment, then looks out again as before.
Volumnia is charmed to hear that her delight is come. He is sooriginal, such a stolid creature, such an immense being for knowingall sorts of things and never telling them! Volumnia is persuadedthat he must be a Freemason. Is sure he is at the head of a lodge,and wears short aprons, and is made a perfect idol of withcandlesticks and trowels. These lively remarks the fair Dedlockdelivers in her youthful manner, while making a purse.
"He has not been here once," she adds, "since I came. I really hadsome thoughts of breaking my heart for the inconstant creature. I hadalmost made up my mind that he was dead."
It may be the gathering gloom of evening, or it may be the darkergloom within herself, but a shade is on my Lady's face, as if shethought, "I would he were!"
"Mr. Tulkinghorn," says Sir Leicester, "is always welcome here andalways discreet wheresoever he is. A very valuable person, anddeservedly respected."
The debilitated cousin supposes he is "'normously rich fler."
"He has a stake in the country," says Sir Leicester, "I have nodoubt. He is, of course, handsomely paid, and he associates almost ona footing of equality with the highest society."
Everybody starts. For a gun is fired close by.
"Good gracious, what's that?" cries Volumnia with her little witheredscream.
"A rat," says my Lady. "And they have shot him."
Enter Mr. Tulkinghorn, followed by Mercuries with lamps and candles.
"No, no," says Sir Leicester, "I think not. My Lady, do you object tothe twilight?"
On the contrary, my Lady prefers it.
"Volumnia?"
Oh! Nothing is so delicious to Volumnia as to sit and talk in thedark.
"Then take them away," says Sir Leicester. "Tulkinghorn, I beg yourpardon. How do you do?"
Mr. Tulkinghorn with his usual leisurely ease advances, renders hispassing homage to my Lady, shakes Sir Leicester's hand, and subsidesinto the chair proper to him when he has anything to communicate, onthe opposite side of the Baronet's little newspaper-table. SirLeicester is apprehensive that my Lady, not being very well, willtake cold at that open window. My Lady is obliged to him, but wouldrather sit there for the air. Sir Leicester rises, adjusts her scarfabout her, and returns to his seat. Mr. Tulkinghorn in the meanwhiletakes a pinch of snuff.
"Now," says Sir Leicester. "How has that contest gone?"
"Oh, hollow from the beginning. Not a chance. They have brought inboth their people. You are beaten out of all reason. Three to one."
It is a part of Mr. Tulkinghorn's policy and mastery to have nopolitical opinions; indeed, NO opinions. Therefore he says "you" arebeaten, and not "we."
Sir Leicester is majestically wroth. Volumnia never heard of such athing. 'The debilitated cousin holds that it's sort of thing that'ssure tapn slongs votes--giv'n--Mob.
"It's the place, you know," Mr. Tulkinghorn goes on to say in thefast-increasing darkness when there is silence again, "where theywanted to put up Mrs. Rouncewell's son."
"A proposal which, as you correctly informed me at the time, he hadthe becoming taste and perception," observes Sir Leicester, "todecline. I cannot say that I by any means approve of the sentimentsexpressed by Mr. Rouncewell when he was here for some half-hour inthis room, but there was a sense of propriety in his decision which Iam glad to acknowledge."
"Ha!" says Mr. Tulkinghorn. "It did not prevent him from being veryactive in this election, though."
Sir Leicester is distinctly heard to gasp before speaking. "Did Iunderstand you? Did you say that Mr. Rouncewell had been very activein this election?"
"Uncommonly active."
"Against--"
"Oh, dear yes, against you. He is a very good speaker. Plain andemphatic. He made a damaging effect, and has great influence. In thebusiness part of the proceedings he carried all before him."
It is evident to the whole company, though nobody can see him, thatSir Leicester is staring majestically.
"And he was much assisted," says Mr. Tulkinghorn as a wind-up, "byhis son."
"By his son, sir?" repeats Sir Leicester with awful politeness.
"By his son."
"The son who wished to marry the young woman in my Lady's service?"
"That son. He has but one."
"Then upon my honour," says Sir Leicester after a terrific pauseduring which he has been heard to snort and felt to stare, "thenupon my honour, upon my life, upon my reputation and principles,the floodgates of society are burst open, and the watershave--a--obliterated the landmarks of the framework of the cohesionby which things are held together!"
General burst of cousinly indignation. Volumnia thinks it isreally high time, you know, for somebody in power to step inand do something strong. Debilitated cousin thinks--country'sgoing--Dayvle--steeple-chase pace.
"I beg," says Sir Leicester in a breathless condition, "that we maynot comment further on this circumstance. Comment is superfluous. MyLady, let me suggest in reference to that young woman--"
"I have no intention," observes my Lady from her window in a low butdecided tone, "of parting with her."
"That was not my meaning," returns Sir Leicester. "I am glad to hearyou say so. I would suggest that as you think her worthy of yourpatronage, you should exert your influence to keep her from thesedangerous hands. You might show her what violence would be done insuch association to her duties and principles, and you might preserveher for a better fate. You might point out to her that she probablywould, in good time, find a husband at Chesney Wold by whom she wouldnot be--" Sir Leicester adds, after a moment's consideration,"dragged from the altars of her forefathers."
These remarks he offers with his unvarying politeness and deferencewhen he addresses himself to his wife. She merely moves her head inreply. The moon is rising, and where she sits there is a littlestream of cold pale light, in which her head is seen.
"It is worthy of remark," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "however, that thesepeople are, in their way, very proud."
"Proud?" Sir Leicester doubts his hearing.
"I should not be surprised if they all voluntarily abandoned thegirl--yes, lover and all--instead of her abandoning them, supposingshe remained at Chesney Wold under such circumstances."
"Well!" says Sir Leicester tremulously. "Well! You should know, Mr.Tulkinghorn. You have been among them."
"Really, Sir Leicester," returns the lawyer, "I state the fact. Why,I could tell you a story--with Lady Dedlock's permission."
Her head concedes it, and Volumnia is enchanted. A story! Oh, he isgoing to tell something at last! A ghost in it, Volumnia hopes?
"No. Real flesh and blood." Mr. Tulkinghorn stops for an instant andrepeats with some little emphasis grafted upon his usual monotony,"Real flesh and blood, Miss Dedlock. Sir Leicester, these particularshave only lately become known to me. They are very brief. Theyexemplify what I have said. I suppress names for the present. LadyDedlock will not think me ill-bred, I hope?"
By the light of the fire, which is low, he can be seen lookingtowards the moonlight. By the light of the moon Lady Dedlock can beseen, perfectly still.
"A townsman of this Mrs. Rouncewell, a man in exactly parallelcircumstances as I am told, had the good fortune to have a daughterwho attracted the notice of a great lady. I speak of really a greatlady, not merely great to him, but married to a gentleman of yourcondition, Sir Leicester."
Sir Leicester condescendingly says, "Yes, Mr. Tulkinghorn," implyingthat then she must have appeared of very considerable moraldimensions indeed in the eyes of an iron-master.
"The lady was wealthy and beautiful, and had a liking for the girl,and treated her with great kindness, and kept her always near her.Now this lady preserved a secret under all her greatness, which shehad preserved for many years. In fact, she had in early life beenengaged to marry a young rake--he was a captain in the army--nothingconnected with whom came to any good. She never did marry him, butshe gave birth to a child of which he was the father."
By the light of the fire he can be seen looking towards themoonlight. By the moonlight, Lady Dedlock can be seen in profile,perfectly still.
"The captain in the army being dead, she believed herself safe; but atrain of circumstances with which I need not trouble you led todiscovery. As I received the story, they began in an imprudence onher own part one day when she was taken by surprise, which shows howdifficult it is for the firmest of us (she was very firm) to bealways guarded. There was great domestic trouble and amazement, youmay suppose; I leave you to imagine, Sir Leicester, the husband'sgrief. But that is not the present point. When Mr. Rouncewell'stownsman heard of the disclosure, he no more allowed the girl to bepatronized and honoured than he would have suffered her to be troddenunderfoot before his eyes. Such was his pride, that he indignantlytook her away, as if from reproach and disgrace. He had no sense ofthe honour done him and his daughter by the lady's condescension; notthe least. He resented the girl's position, as if the lady had beenthe commonest of commoners. That is the story. I hope Lady Dedlockwill excuse its painful nature."
There are various opinions on the merits, more or less conflictingwith Volumnia's. That fair young creature cannot believe there everwas any such lady and rejects the whole history on the threshold. Themajority incline to the debilitated cousin's sentiment, which is infew words--"no business--Rouncewell's fernal townsman." Sir Leicestergenerally refers back in his mind to Wat Tyler and arranges asequence of events on a plan of his own.
There is not much conversation in all, for late hours have been keptat Chesney Wold since the necessary expenses elsewhere began, andthis is the first night in many on which the family have been alone.It is past ten when Sir Leicester begs Mr. Tulkinghorn to ring forcandles. Then the stream of moonlight has swelled into a lake, andthen Lady Dedlock for the first time moves, and rises, and comesforward to a table for a glass of water. Winking cousins, bat-like inthe candle glare, crowd round to give it; Volumnia (always ready forsomething better if procurable) takes another, a very mild sip ofwhich contents her; Lady Dedlock, graceful, self-possessed, lookedafter by admiring eyes, passes away slowly down the long perspectiveby the side of that nymph, not at all improving her as a question ofcontrast.



CHAPTER XLI
In Mr. Tulkinghorn's Room

Mr. Tulkinghorn arrives in his turret-room a little breathed by thejourney up, though leisurely performed. There is an expression on hisface as if he had discharged his mind of some grave matter and were,in his close way, satisfied. To say of a man so severely and strictlyself-repressed that he is triumphant would be to do him as great aninjustice as to suppose him troubled with love or sentiment or anyromantic weakness. He is sedately satisfied. Perhaps there is arather increased sense of power upon him as he loosely grasps one ofhis veinous wrists with his other hand and holding it behind his backwalks noiselessly up and down.
There is a capacious writing-table in the room on which is a prettylarge accumulation of papers. The green lamp is lighted, hisreading-glasses lie upon the desk, the easy-chair is wheeled up toit, and it would seem as though he had intended to bestow an hour orso upon these claims on his attention before going to bed. But hehappens not to be in a business mind. After a glance at the documentsawaiting his notice--with his head bent low over the table, the oldman's sight for print or writing being defective at night--he opensthe French window and steps out upon the leads. There he again walksslowly up and down in the same attitude, subsiding, if a man so coolmay have any need to subside, from the story he has relateddownstairs.
The time was once when men as knowing as Mr. Tulkinghorn would walkon turret-tops in the starlight and look up into the sky to readtheir fortunes there. Hosts of stars are visible to-night, thoughtheir brilliancy is eclipsed by the splendour of the moon. If he beseeking his own star as he methodically turns and turns upon theleads, it should be but a pale one to be so rustily representedbelow. If he be tracing out his destiny, that may be written in othercharacters nearer to his hand.
As he paces the leads with his eyes most probably as high above histhoughts as they are high above the earth, he is suddenly stopped inpassing the window by two eyes that meet his own. The ceiling of hisroom is rather low; and the upper part of the door, which is oppositethe window, is of glass. There is an inner baize door, too, but thenight being warm he did not close it when he came upstairs. Theseeyes that meet his own are looking in through the glass from thecorridor outside. He knows them well. The blood has not flushed intohis face so suddenly and redly for many a long year as when herecognizes Lady Dedlock.
He steps into the room, and she comes in too, closing both the doorsbehind her. There is a wild disturbance--is it fear or anger?--in hereyes. In her carriage and all else she looks as she looked downstairstwo hours ago.
Is it fear or is it anger now? He cannot be sure. Both might be aspale, both as intent.
"Lady Dedlock?"
She does not speak at first, nor even when she has slowly droppedinto the easy-chair by the table. They look at each other, like twopictures.
"Why have you told my story to so many persons?"
"Lady Dedlock, it was necessary for me to inform you that I knew it."
"How long have you known it?"
"I have suspected it a long while--fully known it a little while."
"Months?"
"Days."
He stands before her with one hand on a chair-back and the other inhis old-fashioned waistcoat and shirt-frill, exactly as he has stoodbefore her at any time since her marriage. The same formalpoliteness, the same composed deference that might as well bedefiance; the whole man the same dark, cold object, at the samedistance, which nothing has ever diminished.
"Is this true concerning the poor girl?"
He slightly inclines and advances his head as not quite understandingthe question.
"You know what you related. Is it true? Do her friends know my storyalso? Is it the town-talk yet? Is it chalked upon the walls and criedin the streets?"
So! Anger, and fear, and shame. All three contending. What power thiswoman has to keep these raging passions down! Mr. Tulkinghorn'sthoughts take such form as he looks at her, with his ragged greyeyebrows a hair's breadth more contracted than usual under her gaze.
"No, Lady Dedlock. That was a hypothetical case, arising out of SirLeicester's unconsciously carrying the matter with so high a hand.But it would be a real case if they knew--what we know."
"Then they do not know it yet?"
"No."
"Can I save the poor girl from injury before they know it?"
"Really, Lady Dedlock," Mr. Tulkinghorn replies, "I cannot give asatisfactory opinion on that point."
And he thinks, with the interest of attentive curiosity, as hewatches the struggle in her breast, "The power and force of thiswoman are astonishing!"
"Sir," she says, for the moment obliged to set her lips with all theenergy she has, that she may speak distinctly, "I will make itplainer. I do not dispute your hypothetical case. I anticipated it,and felt its truth as strongly as you can do, when I saw Mr.Rouncewell here. I knew very well that if he could have had the powerof seeing me as I was, he would consider the poor girl tarnished byhaving for a moment been, although most innocently, the subject of mygreat and distinguished patronage. But I have an interest in her, orI should rather say--no longer belonging to this place--I had, and ifyou can find so much consideration for the woman under your foot asto remember that, she will be very sensible of your mercy."
Mr. Tulkinghorn, profoundly attentive, throws this off with a shrugof self-depreciation and contracts his eyebrows a little more.
"You have prepared me for my exposure, and I thank you for that too.Is there anything that you require of me? Is there any claim that Ican release or any charge or trouble that I can spare my husband inobtaining HIS release by certifying to the exactness of yourdiscovery? I will write anything, here and now, that you willdictate. I am ready to do it."
And she would do it, thinks the lawyer, watchful of the firm handwith which she takes the pen!
"I will not trouble you, Lady Dedlock. Pray spare yourself."
"I have long expected this, as you know. I neither wish to sparemyself nor to be spared. You can do nothing worse to me than you havedone. Do what remains now."
"Lady Dedlock, there is nothing to be done. I will take leave to saya few words when you have finished."
Their need for watching one another should be over now, but they doit all this time, and the stars watch them both through the openedwindow. Away in the moonlight lie the woodland fields at rest, andthe wide house is as quiet as the narrow one. The narrow one! Whereare the digger and the spade, this peaceful night, destined to addthe last great secret to the many secrets of the Tulkinghornexistence? Is the man born yet, is the spade wrought yet? Curiousquestions to consider, more curious perhaps not to consider, underthe watching stars upon a summer night.
"Of repentance or remorse or any feeling of mine," Lady Dedlockpresently proceeds, "I say not a word. If I were not dumb, you wouldbe deaf. Let that go by. It is not for your ears."
He makes a feint of offering a protest, but she sweeps it away withher disdainful hand.
"Of other and very different things I come to speak to you. My jewelsare all in their proper places of keeping. They will be found there.So, my dresses. So, all the valuables I have. Some ready money I hadwith me, please to say, but no large amount. I did not wear my owndress, in order that I might avoid observation. I went to behenceforward lost. Make this known. I leave no other charge withyou."
"Excuse me, Lady Dedlock," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, quite unmoved. "I amnot sure that I understand you. You want--"
"To be lost to all here. I leave Chesney Wold to-night. I go thishour."
Mr. Tulkinghorn shakes his head. She rises, but he, without movinghand from chair-back or from old-fashioned waistcoat and shirt-frill,shakes his head.
"What? Not go as I have said?"
"No, Lady Dedlock," he very calmly replies.
"Do you know the relief that my disappearance will be? Have youforgotten the stain and blot upon this place, and where it is, andwho it is?"
"No, Lady Dedlock, not by any means."
Without deigning to rejoin, she moves to the inner door and has it inher hand when he says to her, without himself stirring hand or footor raising his voice, "Lady Dedlock, have the goodness to stop andhear me, or before you reach the staircase I shall ring thealarm-bell and rouse the house. And then I must speak out beforeevery guest and servant, every man and woman, in it."
He has conquered her. She falters, trembles, and puts her handconfusedly to her head. Slight tokens these in any one else, but whenso practised an eye as Mr. Tulkinghorn's sees indecision for a momentin such a subject, he thoroughly knows its value.
He promptly says again, "Have the goodness to hear me, Lady Dedlock,"and motions to the chair from which she has risen. She hesitates, buthe motions again, and she sits down.
"The relations between us are of an unfortunate description, LadyDedlock; but as they are not of my making, I will not apologize forthem. The position I hold in reference to Sir Leicester is so wellknown to you that I can hardly imagine but that I must long haveappeared in your eyes the natural person to make this discovery."
"Sir," she returns without looking up from the ground on which hereyes are now fixed, "I had better have gone. It would have been farbetter not to have detained me. I have no more to say."
"Excuse me, Lady Dedlock, if I add a little more to hear."
"I wish to hear it at the window, then. I can't breathe where I am."
His jealous glance as she walks that way betrays an instant'smisgiving that she may have it in her thoughts to leap over, anddashing against ledge and cornice, strike her life out upon theterrace below. But a moment's observation of her figure as she standsin the window without any support, looking out at the stars--notup--gloomily out at those stars which are low in the heavens,reassures him. By facing round as she has moved, he stands a littlebehind her.
"Lady Dedlock, I have not yet been able to come to a decisionsatisfactory to myself on the course before me. I am not clear whatto do or how to act next. I must request you, in the meantime, tokeep your secret as you have kept it so long and not to wonder that Ikeep it too."
He pauses, but she makes no reply.
"Pardon me, Lady Dedlock. This is an important subject. You arehonouring me with your attention?"
"I am."
"Thank you. I might have known it from what I have seen of yourstrength of character. I ought not to have asked the question, but Ihave the habit of making sure of my ground, step by step, as I go on.The sole consideration in this unhappy case is Sir Leicester."
"Then why," she asks in a low voice and without removing her gloomylook from those distant stars, "do you detain me in his house?"
"Because he IS the consideration. Lady Dedlock, I have no occasion totell you that Sir Leicester is a very proud man, that his relianceupon you is implicit, that the fall of that moon out of the sky wouldnot amaze him more than your fall from your high position as hiswife."
She breathes quickly and heavily, but she stands as unflinchingly asever he has seen her in the midst of her grandest company.
"I declare to you, Lady Dedlock, that with anything short of thiscase that I have, I would as soon have hoped to root up by means ofmy own strength and my own hands the oldest tree on this estate as toshake your hold upon Sir Leicester and Sir Leicester's trust andconfidence in you. And even now, with this case, I hesitate. Not thathe could doubt (that, even with him, is impossible), but that nothingcan prepare him for the blow."
"Not my flight?" she returned. "Think of it again."
"Your flight, Lady Dedlock, would spread the whole truth, and ahundred times the whole truth, far and wide. It would be impossibleto save the family credit for a day. It is not to be thought of."
There is a quiet decision in his reply which admits of noremonstrance.
"When I speak of Sir Leicester being the sole consideration, he andthe family credit are one. Sir Leicester and the baronetcy, SirLeicester and Chesney Wold, Sir Leicester and his ancestors and hispatrimony"--Mr. Tulkinghorn very dry here--"are, I need not say toyou, Lady Dedlock, inseparable."
"Go on!"
"Therefore," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, pursuing his case in his jog-trotstyle, "I have much to consider. This is to be hushed up if it canbe. How can it be, if Sir Leicester is driven out of his wits or laidupon a death-bed? If I inflicted this shock upon him to-morrowmorning, how could the immediate change in him be accounted for? Whatcould have caused it? What could have divided you? Lady Dedlock, thewall-chalking and the street-crying would come on directly, and youare to remember that it would not affect you merely (whom I cannot atall consider in this business) but your husband, Lady Dedlock, yourhusband."
He gets plainer as he gets on, but not an atom more emphatic oranimated.
"There is another point of view," he continues, "in which the casepresents itself. Sir Leicester is devoted to you almost toinfatuation. He might not be able to overcome that infatuation, evenknowing what we know. I am putting an extreme case, but it might beso. If so, it were better that he knew nothing. Better for commonsense, better for him, better for me. I must take all this intoaccount, and it combines to render a decision very difficult."
She stands looking out at the same stars without a word. They arebeginning to pale, and she looks as if their coldness froze her.
"My experience teaches me," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, who has by thistime got his hands in his pockets and is going on in his businessconsideration of the matter like a machine. "My experience teachesme, Lady Dedlock, that most of the people I know would do far betterto leave marriage alone. It is at the bottom of three fourths oftheir troubles. So I thought when Sir Leicester married, and so Ialways have thought since. No more about that. I must now be guidedby circumstances. In the meanwhile I must beg you to keep your owncounsel, and I will keep mine."
"I am to drag my present life on, holding its pains at your pleasure,day by day?" she asks, still looking at the distant sky.
"Yes, I am afraid so, Lady Dedlock."
"It is necessary, you think, that I should be so tied to the stake?"
"I am sure that what I recommend is necessary."
"I am to remain on this gaudy platform on which my miserabledeception has been so long acted, and it is to fall beneath me whenyou give the signal?" she said slowly.
"Not without notice, Lady Dedlock. I shall take no step withoutforewarning you."
She asks all her questions as if she were repeating them from memoryor calling them over in her sleep.
"We are to meet as usual?"
"Precisely as usual, if you please."
"And I am to hide my guilt, as I have done so many years?"
"As you have done so many years. I should not have made thatreference myself, Lady Dedlock, but I may now remind you that yoursecret can be no heavier to you than it was, and is no worse and nobetter than it was. I know it certainly, but I believe we have neverwholly trusted each other."
She stands absorbed in the same frozen way for some little timebefore asking, "Is there anything more to be said to-night?"
"Why," Mr. Tulkinghorn returns methodically as he softly rubs hishands, "I should like to be assured of your acquiescence in myarrangements, Lady Dedlock."
"You may be assured of it."
"Good. And I would wish in conclusion to remind you, as a businessprecaution, in case it should be necessary to recall the fact in anycommunication with Sir Leicester, that throughout our interview Ihave expressly stated my sole consideration to be Sir Leicester'sfeelings and honour and the family reputation. I should have beenhappy to have made Lady Dedlock a prominent consideration, too, ifthe case had admitted of it; but unfortunately it does not."
"I can attest your fidelity, sir."
Both before and after saying it she remains absorbed, but at lengthmoves, and turns, unshaken in her natural and acquired presence,towards the door. Mr. Tulkinghorn opens both the doors exactly as hewould have done yesterday, or as he would have done ten years ago,and makes his old-fashioned bow as she passes out. It is not anordinary look that he receives from the handsome face as it goes intothe darkness, and it is not an ordinary movement, though a veryslight one, that acknowledges his courtesy. But as he reflects whenhe is left alone, the woman has been putting no common constraintupon herself.
He would know it all the better if he saw the woman pacing her ownrooms with her hair wildly thrown from her flung-back face, her handsclasped behind her head, her figure twisted as if by pain. He wouldthink so all the more if he saw the woman thus hurrying up and downfor hours, without fatigue, without intermission, followed by thefaithful step upon the Ghost's Walk. But he shuts out the now chilledair, draws the window-curtain, goes to bed, and falls asleep. Andtruly when the stars go out and the wan day peeps into theturret-chamber, finding him at his oldest, he looks as if the diggerand the spade were both commissioned and would soon be digging.
The same wan day peeps in at Sir Leicester pardoning the repentantcountry in a majestically condescending dream; and at the cousinsentering on various public employments, principally receipt ofsalary; and at the chaste Volumnia, bestowing a dower of fiftythousand pounds upon a hideous old general with a mouth of falseteeth like a pianoforte too full of keys, long the admiration of Bathand the terror of every other community. Also into rooms high in theroof, and into offices in court-yards, and over stables, wherehumbler ambition dreams of bliss, in keepers' lodges, and in holymatrimony with Will or Sally. Up comes the bright sun, drawingeverything up with it--the Wills and Sallys, the latent vapour in theearth, the drooping leaves and flowers, the birds and beasts andcreeping things, the gardeners to sweep the dewy turf and unfoldemerald velvet where the roller passes, the smoke of the greatkitchen fire wreathing itself straight and high into the lightsomeair. Lastly, up comes the flag over Mr. Tulkinghorn's unconscioushead cheerfully proclaiming that Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock arein their happy home and that there is hospitality at the place inLincolnshire.



CHAPTER XLII
In Mr. Tulkinghorn's Chambers

From the verdant undulations and the spreading oaks of the Dedlockproperty, Mr. Tulkinghorn transfers himself to the stale heat anddust of London. His manner of coming and going between the two placesis one of his impenetrabilities. He walks into Chesney Wold as if itwere next door to his chambers and returns to his chambers as if hehad never been out of Lincoln's Inn Fields. He neither changes hisdress before the journey nor talks of it afterwards. He melted out ofhis turret-room this morning, just as now, in the late twilight, hemelts into his own square.
Like a dingy London bird among the birds at roost in these pleasantfields, where the sheep are all made into parchment, the goats intowigs, and the pasture into chaff, the lawyer, smoke-dried and faded,dwelling among mankind but not consorting with them, aged withoutexperience of genial youth, and so long used to make his cramped nestin holes and corners of human nature that he has forgotten itsbroader and better range, comes sauntering home. In the oven made bythe hot pavements and hot buildings, he has baked himself dryer thanusual; and he has in his thirsty mind his mellowed port-wine half acentury old.
The lamplighter is skipping up and down his ladder on Mr.Tulkinghorn's side of the Fields when that high-priest of noblemysteries arrives at his own dull court-yard. He ascends thedoor-steps and is gliding into the dusky hall when he encounters, onthe top step, a bowing and propitiatory little man.
"Is that Snagsby?"
"Yes, sir. I hope you are well, sir. I was just giving you up, sir,and going home."
"Aye? What is it? What do you want with me?"
"Well, sir," says Mr. Snagsby, holding his hat at the side of hishead in his deference towards his best customer, "I was wishful tosay a word to you, sir."
"Can you say it here?"
"Perfectly, sir."
"Say it then." The lawyer turns, leans his arms on the iron railingat the top of the steps, and looks at the lamplighter lighting thecourt-yard.
"It is relating," says Mr. Snagsby in a mysterious low voice, "it isrelating--not to put too fine a point upon it--to the foreigner,sir!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn eyes him with some surprise. "What foreigner?"
"The foreign female, sir. French, if I don't mistake? I am notacquainted with that language myself, but I should judge from hermanners and appearance that she was French; anyways, certainlyforeign. Her that was upstairs, sir, when Mr. Bucket and me had thehonour of waiting upon you with the sweeping-boy that night."
"Oh! Yes, yes. Mademoiselle Hortense."
"Indeed, sir?" Mr. Snagsby coughs his cough of submission behind hishat. "I am not acquainted myself with the names of foreigners ingeneral, but I have no doubt it WOULD be that." Mr. Snagsby appearsto have set out in this reply with some desperate design of repeatingthe name, but on reflection coughs again to excuse himself.
"And what can you have to say, Snagsby," demands Mr. Tulkinghorn,"about her?"
"Well, sir," returns the stationer, shading his communication withhis hat, "it falls a little hard upon me. My domestic happiness isvery great--at least, it's as great as can be expected, I'm sure--butmy little woman is rather given to jealousy. Not to put too fine apoint upon it, she is very much given to jealousy. And you see, aforeign female of that genteel appearance coming into the shop, andhovering--I should be the last to make use of a strong expression ifI could avoid it, but hovering, sir--in the court--you know itis--now ain't it? I only put it to yourself, sir."
Mr. Snagsby, having said this in a very plaintive manner, throws in acough of general application to fill up all the blanks.
"Why, what do you mean?" asks Mr. Tulkinghorn.
"Just so, sir," returns Mr. Snagsby; "I was sure you would feel ityourself and would excuse the reasonableness of MY feelings whencoupled with the known excitableness of my little woman. You see, theforeign female--which you mentioned her name just now, with quite anative sound I am sure--caught up the word Snagsby that night, beinguncommon quick, and made inquiry, and got the direction and come atdinner-time. Now Guster, our young woman, is timid and has fits, andshe, taking fright at the foreigner's looks--which are fierce--and ata grinding manner that she has of speaking--which is calculated toalarm a weak mind--gave way to it, instead of bearing up against it,and tumbled down the kitchen stairs out of one into another, suchfits as I do sometimes think are never gone into, or come out of, inany house but ours. Consequently there was by good fortune ampleoccupation for my little woman, and only me to answer the shop. Whenshe DID say that Mr. Tulkinghorn, being always denied to her by hisemployer (which I had no doubt at the time was a foreign mode ofviewing a clerk), she would do herself the pleasure of continuallycalling at my place until she was let in here. Since then she hasbeen, as I began by saying, hovering, hovering, sir"--Mr. Snagsbyrepeats the word with pathetic emphasis--"in the court. The effectsof which movement it is impossible to calculate. I shouldn't wonderif it might have already given rise to the painfullest mistakes evenin the neighbours' minds, not mentioning (if such a thing waspossible) my little woman. Whereas, goodness knows," says Mr.Snagsby, shaking his head, "I never had an idea of a foreign female,except as being formerly connected with a bunch of brooms and a baby,or at the present time with a tambourine and earrings. I never had, Ido assure you, sir!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn had listened gravely to this complaint and inquireswhen the stationer has finished, "And that's all, is it, Snagsby?"
"Why yes, sir, that's all," says Mr. Snagsby, ending with a coughthat plainly adds, "and it's enough too--for me."
"I don't know what Mademoiselle Hortense may want or mean, unless sheis mad," says the lawyer.
"Even if she was, you know, sir," Mr. Snagsby pleads, "it wouldn't bea consolation to have some weapon or another in the form of a foreigndagger planted in the family."
"No," says the other. "Well, well! This shall be stopped. I am sorryyou have been inconvenienced. If she comes again, send her here."
Mr. Snagsby, with much bowing and short apologetic coughing, takeshis leave, lightened in heart. Mr. Tulkinghorn goes upstairs, sayingto himself, "These women were created to give trouble the whole earthover. The mistress not being enough to deal with, here's the maidnow! But I will be short with THIS jade at least!"
So saying, he unlocks his door, gropes his way into his murky rooms,lights his candles, and looks about him. It is too dark to see muchof the Allegory overhead there, but that importunate Roman, who isfor ever toppling out of the clouds and pointing, is at his old workpretty distinctly. Not honouring him with much attention, Mr.Tulkinghorn takes a small key from his pocket, unlocks a drawer inwhich there is another key, which unlocks a chest in which there isanother, and so comes to the cellar-key, with which he prepares todescend to the regions of old wine. He is going towards the door witha candle in his hand when a knock comes.
"Who's this? Aye, aye, mistress, it's you, is it? You appear at agood time. I have just been hearing of you. Now! What do you want?"
He stands the candle on the chimney-piece in the clerk's hall andtaps his dry cheek with the key as he addresses these words ofwelcome to Mademoiselle Hortense. That feline personage, with herlips tightly shut and her eyes looking out at him sideways, softlycloses the door before replying.
"I have had great deal of trouble to find you, sir."
"HAVE you!"
"I have been here very often, sir. It has always been said to me, heis not at home, he is engage, he is this and that, he is not foryou."
"Quite right, and quite true."
"Not true. Lies!"
At times there is a suddenness in the manner of Mademoiselle Hortenseso like a bodily spring upon the subject of it that such subjectinvoluntarily starts and fails back. It is Mr. Tulkinghorn's case atpresent, though Mademoiselle Hortense, with her eyes almost shut up(but still looking out sideways), is only smiling contemptuously andshaking her head.
"Now, mistress," says the lawyer, tapping the key hastily upon thechimney-piece. "If you have anything to say, say it, say it."
"Sir, you have not use me well. You have been mean and shabby."
"Mean and shabby, eh?" returns the lawyer, rubbing his nose with thekey.
"Yes. What is it that I tell you? You know you have. You haveattrapped me--catched me--to give you information; you have asked meto show you the dress of mine my Lady must have wore that night, youhave prayed me to come in it here to meet that boy. Say! Is it not?"Mademoiselle Hortense makes another spring.
"You are a vixen, a vixen!" Mr. Tulkinghorn seems to meditate as helooks distrustfully at her, then he replies, "Well, wench, well. Ipaid you."
"You paid me!" she repeats with fierce disdain. "Two sovereign! Ihave not change them, I re-fuse them, I des-pise them, I throw themfrom me!" Which she literally does, taking them out of her bosom asshe speaks and flinging them with such violence on the floor thatthey jerk up again into the light before they roll away into cornersand slowly settle down there after spinning vehemently.
"Now!" says Mademoiselle Hortense, darkening her large eyes again."You have paid me? Eh, my God, oh yes!"
Mr. Tulkinghorn rubs his head with the key while she entertainsherself with a sarcastic laugh.
"You must be rich, my fair friend," he composedly observes, "to throwmoney about in that way!"
"I AM rich," she returns. "I am very rich in hate. I hate my Lady, ofall my heart. You know that."
"Know it? How should I know it?"
"Because you have known it perfectly before you prayed me to give youthat information. Because you have known perfectly that I wasen-r-r-r-raged!" It appears impossible for mademoiselle to roll theletter "r" sufficiently in this word, notwithstanding that sheassists her energetic delivery by clenching both her hands andsetting all her teeth.
"Oh! I knew that, did I?" says Mr. Tulkinghorn, examining the wardsof the key.
"Yes, without doubt. I am not blind. You have made sure of me becauseyou knew that. You had reason! I det-est her." Mademoiselle Hortense folds herarms and throws this last remark at him over one of her shoulders.
"Having said this, have you anything else to say, mademoiselle?"
"I am not yet placed. Place me well. Find me a good condition! If youcannot, or do not choose to do that, employ me to pursue her, tochase her, to disgrace and to dishonour her. I will help you well,and with a good will. It is what YOU do. Do I not know that?"
"You appear to know a good deal," Mr. Tulkinghorn retorts.
"Do I not? Is it that I am so weak as to believe, like a child, thatI come here in that dress to rec-eive that boy only to decide alittle bet, a wager? Eh, my God, oh yes!" In this reply, down to theword "wager" inclusive, mademoiselle has been ironically polite andtender, then as suddenly dashed into the bitterest and most defiantscorn, with her black eyes in one and the same moment very nearlyshut and staringly wide open.
"Now, let us see," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, tapping his chin with thekey and looking imperturbably at her, "how this matter stands."
"Ah! Let us see," mademoiselle assents, with many angry and tightnods of her head.
"You come here to make a remarkably modest demand, which you havejust stated, and it not being conceded, you will come again."
"And again," says mademoiselle with more tight and angry nods. "Andyet again. And yet again. And many times again. In effect, for ever!"
"And not only here, but you will go to Mr. Snagsby's too, perhaps?That visit not succeeding either, you will go again perhaps?"
"And again," repeats mademoiselle, cataleptic with determination."And yet again. And yet again. And many times again. In effect, forever!"
"Very well. Now, Mademoiselle Hortense, let me recommend you to takethe candle and pick up that money of yours. I think you will find itbehind the clerk's partition in the corner yonder."
She merely throws a laugh over her shoulder and stands her groundwith folded arms.
"You will not, eh?"
"No, I will not!"
"So much the poorer you; so much the richer I! Look, mistress, thisis the key of my wine-cellar. It is a large key, but the keys ofprisons are larger. In this city there are houses of correction(where the treadmills are, for women), the gates of which are verystrong and heavy, and no doubt the keys too. I am afraid a lady ofyour spirit and activity would find it an inconvenience to have oneof those keys turned upon her for any length of time. What do youthink?"
"I think," mademoiselle replies without any action and in a clear,obliging voice, "that you are a miserable wretch."
"Probably," returns Mr. Tulkinghorn, quietly blowing his nose. "But Idon't ask what you think of myself; I ask what you think of theprison."
"Nothing. What does it matter to me?"
"Why, it matters this much, mistress," says the lawyer, deliberatelyputting away his handkerchief and adjusting his frill; "the law is sodespotic here that it interferes to prevent any of our good Englishcitizens from being troubled, even by a lady's visits against hisdesire. And on his complaining that he is so troubled, it takes holdof the troublesome lady and shuts her up in prison under harddiscipline. Turns the key upon her, mistress." Illustrating with thecellar-key.
"Truly?" returns mademoiselle in the same pleasant voice. "That isdroll! But--my faith!--still what does it matter to me?"
"My fair friend," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "make another visit here, orat Mr. Snagsby's, and you shall learn."
"In that case you will send me to the prison, perhaps?"
"Perhaps."
It would be contradictory for one in mademoiselle's state ofagreeable jocularity to foam at the mouth, otherwise a tigerishexpansion thereabouts might look as if a very little more would makeher do it.
"In a word, mistress," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, "I am sorry to beunpolite, but if you ever present yourself uninvited here--orthere--again, I will give you over to the police. Their gallantry isgreat, but they carry troublesome people through the streets in anignominious manner, strapped down on a board, my good wench."
"I will prove you," whispers mademoiselle, stretching out her hand,"I will try if you dare to do it!"
"And if," pursues the lawyer without minding her, "I place you inthat good condition of being locked up in jail, it will be some timebefore you find yourself at liberty again."
"I will prove you," repeats mademoiselle in her former whisper.
"And now," proceeds the lawyer, still without minding her, "you hadbetter go. Think twice before you come here again."
"Think you," she answers, "twice two hundred times!"
"You were dismissed by your lady, you know," Mr. Tulkinghornobserves, following her out upon the staircase, "as the mostimplacable and unmanageable of women. Now turn over a new leaf andtake warning by what I say to you. For what I say, I mean; and what Ithreaten, I will do, mistress."
She goes down without answering or looking behind her. When she isgone, he goes down too, and returning with his cobweb-covered bottle,devotes himself to a leisurely enjoyment of its contents, now andthen, as he throws his head back in his chair, catching sight of thepertinacious Roman pointing from the ceiling.



CHAPTER XLIII
Esther's Narrative

It matters little now how much I thought of my living mother who hadtold me evermore to consider her dead. I could not venture toapproach her or to communicate with her in writing, for my sense ofthe peril in which her life was passed was only to be equalled by myfears of increasing it. Knowing that my mere existence as a livingcreature was an unforeseen danger in her way, I could not alwaysconquer that terror of myself which had seized me when I first knewthe secret. At no time did I dare to utter her name. I felt as if Idid not even dare to hear it. If the conversation anywhere, when Iwas present, took that direction, as it sometimes naturally did, Itried not to hear: I mentally counted, repeated something that Iknew, or went out of the room. I am conscious now that I often didthese things when there can have been no danger of her being spokenof, but I did them in the dread I had of hearing anything that mightlead to her betrayal, and to her betrayal through me.
It matters little now how often I recalled the tones of my mother'svoice, wondered whether I should ever hear it again as I so longed todo, and thought how strange and desolate it was that it should be sonew to me. It matters little that I watched for every public mentionof my mother's name; that I passed and repassed the door of her housein town, loving it, but afraid to look at it; that I once sat in thetheatre when my mother was there and saw me, and when we were so wideasunder before the great company of all degrees that any link orconfidence between us seemed a dream. It is all, all over. My lot hasbeen so blest that I can relate little of myself which is not a storyof goodness and generosity in others. I may well pass that little andgo on.
When we were settled at home again, Ada and I had many conversationswith my guardian of which Richard was the theme. My dear girl wasdeeply grieved that he should do their kind cousin so much wrong, butshe was so faithful to Richard that she could not bear to blame himeven for that. My guardian was assured of it, and never coupled hisname with a word of reproof. "Rick is mistaken, my dear," he wouldsay to her. "Well, well! We have all been mistaken over and overagain. We must trust to you and time to set him right."
We knew afterwards what we suspected then, that he did not trust totime until he had often tried to open Richard's eyes. That he hadwritten to him, gone to him, talked with him, tried every gentle andpersuasive art his kindness could devise. Our poor devoted Richardwas deaf and blind to all. If he were wrong, he would make amendswhen the Chancery suit was over. If he were groping in the dark,he could not do better than do his utmost to clear away thoseclouds in which so much was confused and obscured. Suspicion andmisunderstanding were the fault of the suit? Then let him work thesuit out and come through it to his right mind. This was hisunvarying reply. Jarndyce and Jarndyce had obtained such possessionof his whole nature that it was impossible to place any considerationbefore him which he did not, with a distorted kind of reason, make anew argument in favour of his doing what he did. "So that it is evenmore mischievous," said my guardian once to me, "to remonstrate withthe poor dear fellow than to leave him alone."
I took one of these opportunities of mentioning my doubts of Mr.Skimpole as a good adviser for Richard.
"Adviser!" returned my guardian, laughing, "My dear, who would advisewith Skimpole?"
"Encourager would perhaps have been a better word," said I.
"Encourager!" returned my guardian again. "Who could be encouraged bySkimpole?"
"Not Richard?" I asked.
"No," he replied. "Such an unworldly, uncalculating, gossamercreature is a relief to him and an amusement. But as to advising orencouraging or occupying a serious station towards anybody oranything, it is simply not to be thought of in such a child asSkimpole."
"Pray, cousin John," said Ada, who had just joined us and now lookedover my shoulder, "what made him such a child?"
"What made him such a child?" inquired my guardian, rubbing his head,a little at a loss.
"Yes, cousin John."
"Why," he slowly replied, roughening his head more and more, "he isall sentiment, and--and susceptibility, and--and sensibility,and--and imagination. And these qualities are not regulated in him,somehow. I suppose the people who admired him for them in his youthattached too much importance to them and too little to any trainingthat would have balanced and adjusted them, and so he became what heis. Hey?" said my guardian, stopping short and looking at ushopefully. "What do you think, you two?"
Ada, glancing at me, said she thought it was a pity he should be anexpense to Richard.
"So it is, so it is," returned my guardian hurriedly. "That must notbe. We must arrange that. I must prevent it. That will never do."
And I said I thought it was to be regretted that he had everintroduced Richard to Mr. Vholes for a present of five pounds.
"Did he?" said my guardian with a passing shade of vexation on hisface. "But there you have the man. There you have the man! There isnothing mercenary in that with him. He has no idea of the value ofmoney. He introduces Rick, and then he is good friends with Mr.Vholes and borrows five pounds of him. He means nothing by it andthinks nothing of it. He told you himself, I'll be bound, my dear?"
"Oh, yes!" said I.
"Exactly!" cried my guardian, quite triumphant. "There you have theman! If he had meant any harm by it or was conscious of any harm init, he wouldn't tell it. He tells it as he does it in meresimplicity. But you shall see him in his own home, and then you'llunderstand him better. We must pay a visit to Harold Skimpole andcaution him on these points. Lord bless you, my dears, an infant, aninfant!"
In pursuance of this plan, we went into London on an early day andpresented ourselves at Mr. Skimpole's door.
He lived in a place called the Polygon, in Somers Town, where therewere at that time a number of poor Spanish refugees walking about incloaks, smoking little paper cigars. Whether he was a better tenantthan one might have supposed, in consequence of his friend Somebodyalways paying his rent at last, or whether his inaptitude forbusiness rendered it particularly difficult to turn him out, I don'tknow; but he had occupied the same house some years. It was in astate of dilapidation quite equal to our expectation. Two or three ofthe area railings were gone, the water-butt was broken, the knockerwas loose, the bell-handle had been pulled off a long time to judgefrom the rusty state of the wire, and dirty footprints on the stepswere the only signs of its being inhabited.
A slatternly full-blown girl who seemed to be bursting out at therents in her gown and the cracks in her shoes like an over-ripe berryanswered our knock by opening the door a very little way and stoppingup the gap with her figure. As she knew Mr. Jarndyce (indeed Ada andI both thought that she evidently associated him with the receipt ofher wages), she immediately relented and allowed us to pass in. Thelock of the door being in a disabled condition, she then appliedherself to securing it with the chain, which was not in good actioneither, and said would we go upstairs?
We went upstairs to the first floor, still seeing no other furniturethan the dirty footprints. Mr. Jarndyce without further ceremonyentered a room there, and we followed. It was dingy enough and not atall clean, but furnished with an odd kind of shabby luxury, with alarge footstool, a sofa, and plenty of cushions, an easy-chair, andplenty of pillows, a piano, books, drawing materials, music,newspapers, and a few sketches and pictures. A broken pane of glassin one of the dirty windows was papered and wafered over, but therewas a little plate of hothouse nectarines on the table, and there wasanother of grapes, and another of sponge-cakes, and there was abottle of light wine. Mr. Skimpole himself reclined upon the sofa ina dressing-gown, drinking some fragrant coffee from an old chinacup--it was then about mid-day--and looking at a collection ofwallflowers in the balcony.
He was not in the least disconcerted by our appearance, but rose andreceived us in his usual airy manner.
"Here I am, you see!" he said when we were seated, not without somelittle difficulty, the greater part of the chairs being broken. "HereI am! This is my frugal breakfast. Some men want legs of beef andmutton for breakfast; I don't. Give me my peach, my cup of coffee,and my claret; I am content. I don't want them for themselves, butthey remind me of the sun. There's nothing solar about legs of beefand mutton. Mere animal satisfaction!"
"This is our friend's consulting-room (or would be, if he everprescribed), his sanctum, his studio," said my guardian to us.
"Yes," said Mr. Skimpole, turning his bright face about, "this is thebird's cage. This is where the bird lives and sings. They pluck hisfeathers now and then and clip his wings, but he sings, he sings!"
He handed us the grapes, repeating in his radiant way, "He sings! Notan ambitious note, but still he sings."
"These are very fine," said my guardian. "A present?"
"No," he answered. "No! Some amiable gardener sells them. His manwanted to know, when he brought them last evening, whether he shouldwait for the money. 'Really, my friend,' I said, 'I think not--ifyour time is of any value to you.' I suppose it was, for he wentaway."
My guardian looked at us with a smile, as though he asked us, "Is itpossible to be worldly with this baby?"
"This is a day," said Mr. Skimpole, gaily taking a little claret in atumbler, "that will ever be remembered here. We shall call it SaintClare and Saint Summerson day. You must see my daughters. I have ablue-eyed daughter who is my Beauty daughter, I have a Sentimentdaughter, and I have a Comedy daughter. You must see them all.They'll be enchanted."
He was going to summon them when my guardian interposed and asked himto pause a moment, as he wished to say a word to him first. "My dearJarndyce," he cheerfully replied, going back to his sofa, "as manymoments as you please. Time is no object here. We never know whato'clock it is, and we never care. Not the way to get on in life,you'll tell me? Certainly. But we DON'T get on in life. We don'tpretend to do it."
My guardian looked at us again, plainly saying, "You hear him?"
"Now, Harold," he began, "the word I have to say relates to Rick."
"The dearest friend I have!" returned Mr. Skimpole cordially. "Isuppose he ought not to be my dearest friend, as he is not on termswith you. But he is, I can't help it; he is full of youthful poetry,and I love him. If you don't like it, I can't help it. I love him."
The engaging frankness with which he made this declaration really hada disinterested appearance and captivated my guardian, if not, forthe moment, Ada too.
"You are welcome to love him as much as you like," returned Mr.Jarndyce, "but we must save his pocket, Harold."
"Oh!" said Mr. Skimpole. "His pocket? Now you are coming to what Idon't understand." Taking a little more claret and dipping one of thecakes in it, he shook his head and smiled at Ada and me with aningenuous foreboding that he never could be made to understand.
"If you go with him here or there," said my guardian plainly, "youmust not let him pay for both."
"My dear Jarndyce," returned Mr. Skimpole, his genial face irradiatedby the comicality of this idea, "what am I to do? If he takes meanywhere, I must go. And how can I pay? I never have any money. If Ihad any money, I don't know anything about it. Suppose I say to aman, how much? Suppose the man says to me seven and sixpence? I knownothing about seven and sixpence. It is impossible for me to pursuethe subject with any consideration for the man. I don't go aboutasking busy people what seven and sixpence is in Moorish--which Idon't understand. Why should I go about asking them what seven andsixpence is in Money--which I don't understand?"
"Well," said my guardian, by no means displeased with this artlessreply, "if you come to any kind of journeying with Rick, you mustborrow the money of me (never breathing the least allusion to thatcircumstance), and leave the calculation to him."
"My dear Jarndyce," returned Mr. Skimpole, "I will do anything togive you pleasure, but it seems an idle form--a superstition.Besides, I give you my word, Miss Clare and my dear Miss Summerson, Ithought Mr. Carstone was immensely rich. I thought he had only tomake over something, or to sign a bond, or a draft, or a cheque, or abill, or to put something on a file somewhere, to bring down a showerof money."
"Indeed it is not so, sir," said Ada. "He is poor."
"No, really?" returned Mr. Skimpole with his bright smile. "Yousurprise me.
"And not being the richer for trusting in a rotten reed," said myguardian, laying his hand emphatically on the sleeve of Mr.Skimpole's dressing-gown, "be you very careful not to encourage himin that reliance, Harold."
"My dear good friend," returned Mr. Skimpole, "and my dear MissSimmerson, and my dear Miss Clare, how can I do that? It's business,and I don't know business. It is he who encourages me. He emergesfrom great feats of business, presents the brightest prospects beforeme as their result, and calls upon me to admire them. I do admirethem--as bright prospects. But I know no more about them, and I tellhim so."
The helpless kind of candour with which he presented this before us,the light-hearted manner in which he was amused by his innocence, thefantastic way in which he took himself under his own protection andargued about that curious person, combined with the delightful easeof everything he said exactly to make out my guardian's case. Themore I saw of him, the more unlikely it seemed to me, when he waspresent, that he could design, conceal, or influence anything; andyet the less likely that appeared when he was not present, and theless agreeable it was to think of his having anything to do with anyone for whom I cared.
Hearing that his examination (as he called it) was now over, Mr.Skimpole left the room with a radiant face to fetch his daughters(his sons had run away at various times), leaving my guardian quitedelighted by the manner in which he had vindicated his childishcharacter. He soon came back, bringing with him the three youngladies and Mrs. Skimpole, who had once been a beauty but was now adelicate high-nosed invalid suffering under a complication ofdisorders.
"This," said Mr. Skimpole, "is my Beauty daughter, Arethusa--playsand sings odds and ends like her father. This is my Sentimentdaughter, Laura--plays a little but don't sing. This is my Comedydaughter, Kitty--sings a little but don't play. We all draw a littleand compose a little, and none of us have any idea of time or money."
Mrs. Skimpole sighed, I thought, as if she would have been glad tostrike out this item in the family attainments. I also thought thatshe rather impressed her sigh upon my guardian and that she tookevery opportunity of throwing in another.
"It is pleasant," said Mr. Skimpole, turning his sprightly eyes fromone to the other of us, "and it is whimsically interesting to tracepeculiarities in families. In this family we are all children, and Iam the youngest."
The daughters, who appeared to be very fond of him, were amused bythis droll fact, particularly the Comedy daughter.
"My dears, it is true," said Mr. Skimpole, "is it not? So it is, andso it must be, because like the dogs in the hymn, 'it is our natureto.' Now, here is Miss Summerson with a fine administrative capacityand a knowledge of details perfectly surprising. It will sound verystrange in Miss Summerson's ears, I dare say, that we know nothingabout chops in this house. But we don't, not the least. We can't cookanything whatever. A needle and thread we don't know how to use. Weadmire the people who possess the practical wisdom we want, but wedon't quarrel with them. Then why should they quarrel with us? Liveand let live, we say to them. Live upon your practical wisdom, andlet us live upon you!"
He laughed, but as usual seemed quite candid and really to mean whathe said.
"We have sympathy, my roses," said Mr. Skimpole, "sympathy foreverything. Have we not?"
"Oh, yes, papa!" cried the three daughters.
"In fact, that is our family department," said Mr. Skimpole, "in thishurly-burly of life. We are capable of looking on and of beinginterested, and we DO look on, and we ARE interested. What more canwe do? Here is my Beauty daughter, married these three years. Now Idare say her marrying another child, and having two more, was allwrong in point of political economy, but it was very agreeable. Wehad our little festivities on those occasions and exchanged socialideas. She brought her young husband home one day, and they and theiryoung fledglings have their nest upstairs. I dare say at some time orother Sentiment and Comedy will bring THEIR husbands home and haveTHEIR nests upstairs too. So we get on, we don't know how, butsomehow."
She looked very young indeed to be the mother of two children, and Icould not help pitying both her and them. It was evident that thethree daughters had grown up as they could and had had just as littlehaphazard instruction as qualified them to be their father'splaythings in his idlest hours. His pictorial tastes were consulted,I observed, in their respective styles of wearing their hair, theBeauty daughter being in the classic manner, the Sentiment daughterluxuriant and flowing, and the Comedy daughter in the arch style,with a good deal of sprightly forehead, and vivacious little curlsdotted about the corners of her eyes. They were dressed tocorrespond, though in a most untidy and negligent way.
Ada and I conversed with these young ladies and found themwonderfully like their father. In the meanwhile Mr. Jarndyce (who hadbeen rubbing his head to a great extent, and hinted at a change inthe wind) talked with Mrs. Skimpole in a corner, where we could nothelp hearing the chink of money. Mr. Skimpole had previouslyvolunteered to go home with us and had withdrawn to dress himself forthe purpose.
"My roses," he said when he came back, "take care of mama. She ispoorly to-day. By going home with Mr. Jarndyce for a day or two, Ishall hear the larks sing and preserve my amiability. It has beentried, you know, and would be tried again if I remained at home."
"That bad man!" said the Comedy daughter.
"At the very time when he knew papa was lying ill by his wallflowers,looking at the blue sky," Laura complained.
"And when the smell of hay was in the air!" said Arethusa.
"It showed a want of poetry in the man," Mr. Skimpole assented, butwith perfect good humour. "It was coarse. There was an absence of thefiner touches of humanity in it! My daughters have taken greatoffence," he explained to us, "at an honest man--"
"Not honest, papa. Impossible!" they all three protested.
"At a rough kind of fellow--a sort of human hedgehog rolled up," saidMr. Skimpole, "who is a baker in this neighbourhood and from whom weborrowed a couple of arm-chairs. We wanted a couple of arm-chairs,and we hadn't got them, and therefore of course we looked to a manwho HAD got them, to lend them. Well! This morose person lent them,and we wore them out. When they were worn out, he wanted them back.He had them back. He was contented, you will say. Not at all. Heobjected to their being worn. I reasoned with him, and pointed outhis mistake. I said, 'Can you, at your time of life, be soheadstrong, my friend, as to persist that an arm-chair is a thing toput upon a shelf and look at? That it is an object to contemplate, tosurvey from a distance, to consider from a point of sight? Don't youKNOW that these arm-chairs were borrowed to be sat upon?' He wasunreasonable and unpersuadable and used intemperate language. Beingas patient as I am at this minute, I addressed another appeal to him.I said, 'Now, my good man, however our business capacities may vary,we are all children of one great mother, Nature. On this bloomingsummer morning here you see me' (I was on the sofa) 'with flowersbefore me, fruit upon the table, the cloudless sky above me, the airfull of fragrance, contemplating Nature. I entreat you, by our commonbrotherhood, not to interpose between me and a subject so sublime,the absurd figure of an angry baker!' But he did," said Mr. Skimpole,raising his laughing eyes in playful astonishment; "he did interposethat ridiculous figure, and he does, and he will again. And thereforeI am very glad to get out of his way and to go home with my friendJarndyce."
It seemed to escape his consideration that Mrs. Skimpole and thedaughters remained behind to encounter the baker, but this was so olda story to all of them that it had become a matter of course. He tookleave of his family with a tenderness as airy and graceful as anyother aspect in which he showed himself and rode away with us inperfect harmony of mind. We had an opportunity of seeing through someopen doors, as we went downstairs, that his own apartment was apalace to the rest of the house.
I could have no anticipation, and I had none, that something verystartling to me at the moment, and ever memorable to me in whatensued from it, was to happen before this day was out. Our guest wasin such spirits on the way home that I could do nothing but listen tohim and wonder at him; nor was I alone in this, for Ada yielded tothe same fascination. As to my guardian, the wind, which hadthreatened to become fixed in the east when we left Somers Town,veered completely round before we were a couple of miles from it.
Whether of questionable childishness or not in any other matters, Mr.Skimpole had a child's enjoyment of change and bright weather. In noway wearied by his sallies on the road, he was in the drawing-roombefore any of us; and I heard him at the piano while I was yetlooking after my housekeeping, singing refrains of barcaroles anddrinking songs, Italian and German, by the score.
We were all assembled shortly before dinner, and he was still at thepiano idly picking out in his luxurious way little strains of music,and talking between whiles of finishing some sketches of the ruinedold Verulam wall to-morrow, which he had begun a year or two ago andhad got tired of, when a card was brought in and my guardian readaloud in a surprised voice, "Sir Leicester Dedlock!"
The visitor was in the room while it was yet turning round with meand before I had the power to stir. If I had had it, I should havehurried away. I had not even the presence of mind, in my giddiness,to retire to Ada in the window, or to see the window, or to knowwhere it was. I heard my name and found that my guardian waspresenting me before I could move to a chair.
"Pray be seated, Sir Leicester."
"Mr. Jarndyce," said Sir Leicester in reply as he bowed and seatedhimself, "I do myself the honour of calling here--"
"You do ME the honour, Sir Leicester."
"Thank you--of calling here on my road from Lincolnshire to expressmy regret that any cause of complaint, however strong, that I mayhave against a gentleman who--who is known to you and has been yourhost, and to whom therefore I will make no farther reference, shouldhave prevented you, still more ladies under your escort and charge,from seeing whatever little there may be to gratify a polite andrefined taste at my house, Chesney Wold."
"You are exceedingly obliging, Sir Leicester, and on behalf of thoseladies (who are present) and for myself, I thank you very much."
"It is possible, Mr. Jarndyce, that the gentleman to whom, for thereasons I have mentioned, I refrain from making further allusion--itis possible, Mr. Jarndyce, that that gentleman may have done me thehonour so far to misapprehend my character as to induce you tobelieve that you would not have been received by my localestablishment in Lincolnshire with that urbanity, that courtesy,which its members are instructed to show to all ladies and gentlemenwho present themselves at that house. I merely beg to observe, sir,that the fact is the reverse."
My guardian delicately dismissed this remark without making anyverbal answer.
"It has given me pain, Mr. Jarndyce," Sir Leicester weightilyproceeded. "I assure you, sir, it has given--me--pain--to learn fromthe housekeeper at Chesney Wold that a gentleman who was in yourcompany in that part of the county, and who would appear to possess acultivated taste for the fine arts, was likewise deterred by somesuch cause from examining the family pictures with that leisure, thatattention, that care, which he might have desired to bestow upon themand which some of them might possibly have repaid." Here he produceda card and read, with much gravity and a little trouble, through hiseye-glass, "Mr. Hirrold--Herald--Harold--Skampling--Skumpling--I begyour pardon--Skimpole."
"This is Mr. Harold Skimpole," said my guardian, evidently surprised.
"Oh!" exclaimed Sir Leicester, "I am happy to meet Mr. Skimpole andto have the opportunity of tendering my personal regrets. I hope,sir, that when you again find yourself in my part of the county, youwill be under no similar sense of restraint."
"You are very obliging, Sir Leicester Dedlock. So encouraged, I shallcertainly give myself the pleasure and advantage of another visit toyour beautiful house. The owners of such places as Chesney Wold,"said Mr. Skimpole with his usual happy and easy air, "are publicbenefactors. They are good enough to maintain a number of delightfulobjects for the admiration and pleasure of us poor men; and not toreap all the admiration and pleasure that they yield is to beungrateful to our benefactors."
Sir Leicester seemed to approve of this sentiment highly. "An artist,sir?"
"No," returned Mr. Skimpole. "A perfectly idle man. A mere amateur."
Sir Leicester seemed to approve of this even more. He hoped he mighthave the good fortune to be at Chesney Wold when Mr. Skimpole nextcame down into Lincolnshire. Mr. Skimpole professed himself muchflattered and honoured.
"Mr. Skimpole mentioned," pursued Sir Leicester, addressing himselfagain to my guardian, "mentioned to the housekeeper, who, as he mayhave observed, is an old and attached retainer of the family--"
("That is, when I walked through the house the other day, on theoccasion of my going down to visit Miss Summerson and Miss Clare,"Mr. Skimpole airily explained to us.)
"--That the friend with whom he had formerly been staying there wasMr. Jarndyce." Sir Leicester bowed to the bearer of that name. "Andhence I became aware of the circumstance for which I have professedmy regret. That this should have occurred to any gentleman, Mr.Jarndyce, but especially a gentleman formerly known to Lady Dedlock,and indeed claiming some distant connexion with her, and for whom (asI learn from my Lady herself) she entertains a high respect, does, Iassure you, give--me--pain."
"Pray say no more about it, Sir Leicester," returned my guardian. "Iam very sensible, as I am sure we all are, of your consideration.Indeed the mistake was mine, and I ought to apologize for it."
I had not once looked up. I had not seen the visitor and had not evenappeared to myself to hear the conversation. It surprises me to findthat I can recall it, for it seemed to make no impression on me as itpassed. I heard them speaking, but my mind was so confused and myinstinctive avoidance of this gentleman made his presence sodistressing to me that I thought I understood nothing, through therushing in my head and the beating of my heart.
"I mentioned the subject to Lady Dedlock," said Sir Leicester,rising, "and my Lady informed me that she had had the pleasure ofexchanging a few words with Mr. Jarndyce and his wards on theoccasion of an accidental meeting during their sojourn in thevicinity. Permit me, Mr. Jarndyce, to repeat to yourself, and tothese ladies, the assurance I have already tendered to Mr. Skimpole.Circumstances undoubtedly prevent my saying that it would afford meany gratification to hear that Mr. Boythorn had favoured my housewith his presence, but those circumstances are confined to thatgentleman himself and do not extend beyond him."
"You know my old opinion of him," said Mr. Skimpole, lightlyappealing to us. "An amiable bull who is determined to make everycolour scarlet!"
Sir Leicester Dedlock coughed as if he could not possibly hearanother word in reference to such an individual and took his leavewith great ceremony and politeness. I got to my own room with allpossible speed and remained there until I had recovered myself-command. It had been very much disturbed, but I was thankful tofind when I went downstairs again that they only rallied me forhaving been shy and mute before the great Lincolnshire baronet.
By that time I had made up my mind that the period was come when Imust tell my guardian what I knew. The possibility of my beingbrought into contact with my mother, of my being taken to her house,even of Mr. Skimpole's, however distantly associated with me,receiving kindnesses and obligations from her husband, was so painfulthat I felt I could no longer guide myself without his assistance.
When we had retired for the night, and Ada and I had had our usualtalk in our pretty room, I went out at my door again and sought myguardian among his books. I knew he always read at that hour, and asI drew near I saw the light shining out into the passage from hisreading-lamp.
"May I come in, guardian?"
"Surely, little woman. What's the matter?"
"Nothing is the matter. I thought I would like to take this quiettime of saying a word to you about myself."
He put a chair for me, shut his book, and put it by, and turned hiskind attentive face towards me. I could not help observing that itwore that curious expression I had observed in it once before--onthat night when he had said that he was in no trouble which I couldreadily understand.
"What concerns you, my dear Esther," said he, "concerns us all. Youcannot be more ready to speak than I am to hear."
"I know that, guardian. But I have such need of your advice andsupport. Oh! You don't know how much need I have to-night."
He looked unprepared for my being so earnest, and even a littlealarmed.
"Or how anxious I have been to speak to you," said I, "ever since thevisitor was here to-day."
"The visitor, my dear! Sir Leicester Dedlock?"
"Yes."
He folded his arms and sat looking at me with an air of theprofoundest astonishment, awaiting what I should say next. I did notknow how to prepare him.
"Why, Esther," said he, breaking into a smile, "our visitor and youare the two last persons on earth I should have thought of connectingtogether!"
"Oh, yes, guardian, I know it. And I too, but a little while ago."
The smile passed from his face, and he became graver than before. Hecrossed to the door to see that it was shut (but I had seen to that)and resumed his seat before me.
"Guardian," said I, "do you remember, when we were overtaken by thethunder-storm, Lady Dedlock's speaking to you of her sister?"
"Of course. Of course I do."
"And reminding you that she and her sister had differed, had gonetheir several ways?"
"Of course."
"Why did they separate, guardian?"
His face quite altered as he looked at me. "My child, what questionsare these! I never knew. No one but themselves ever did know, Ibelieve. Who could tell what the secrets of those two handsome andproud women were! You have seen Lady Dedlock. If you had ever seenher sister, you would know her to have been as resolute and haughtyas she."
"Oh, guardian, I have seen her many and many a time!"
"Seen her?"
He paused a little, biting his lip. "Then, Esther, when you spoke tome long ago of Boythorn, and when I told you that he was all butmarried once, and that the lady did not die, but died to him, andthat that time had had its influence on his later life--did you knowit all, and know who the lady was?"
"No, guardian," I returned, fearful of the light that dimly brokeupon me. "Nor do I know yet."
"Lady Dedlock's sister."
"And why," I could scarcely ask him, "why, guardian, pray tell me whywere THEY parted?"
"It was her act, and she kept its motives in her inflexible heart. Heafterwards did conjecture (but it was mere conjecture) that someinjury which her haughty spirit had received in her cause of quarrelwith her sister had wounded her beyond all reason, but she wrote himthat from the date of that letter she died to him--as in literaltruth she did--and that the resolution was exacted from her by herknowledge of his proud temper and his strained sense of honour, whichwere both her nature too. In consideration for those master points inhim, and even in consideration for them in herself, she made thesacrifice, she said, and would live in it and die in it. She didboth, I fear; certainly he never saw her, never heard of her fromthat hour. Nor did any one."
"Oh, guardian, what have I done!" I cried, giving way to my grief;"what sorrow have I innocently caused!"
"You caused, Esther?"
"Yes, guardian. Innocently, but most surely. That secluded sister ismy first remembrance."
"No, no!" he cried, starting.
"Yes, guardian, yes! And HER sister is my mother!"
I would have told him all my mother's letter, but he would not hearit then. He spoke so tenderly and wisely to me, and he put so plainlybefore me all I had myself imperfectly thought and hoped in my betterstate of mind, that, penetrated as I had been with fervent gratitudetowards him through so many years, I believed I had never loved himso dearly, never thanked him in my heart so fully, as I did thatnight. And when he had taken me to my room and kissed me at the door,and when at last I lay down to sleep, my thought was how could I everbe busy enough, how could I ever be good enough, how in my little waycould I ever hope to be forgetful enough of myself, devoted enough tohim, and useful enough to others, to show him how I blessed andhonoured him.



CHAPTER XLIV
The Letter and the Answer

My guardian called me into his room next morning, and then I told himwhat had been left untold on the previous night. There was nothing tobe done, he said, but to keep the secret and to avoid another suchencounter as that of yesterday. He understood my feeling and entirelyshared it. He charged himself even with restraining Mr. Skimpole fromimproving his opportunity. One person whom he need not name to me, itwas not now possible for him to advise or help. He wished it were,but no such thing could be. If her mistrust of the lawyer whom shehad mentioned were well-founded, which he scarcely doubted, hedreaded discovery. He knew something of him, both by sight and byreputation, and it was certain that he was a dangerous man. Whateverhappened, he repeatedly impressed upon me with anxious affection andkindness, I was as innocent of as himself and as unable to influence.
"Nor do I understand," said he, "that any doubts tend towards you, mydear. Much suspicion may exist without that connexion."
"With the lawyer," I returned. "But two other persons have come intomy mind since I have been anxious. Then I told him all about Mr.Guppy, who I feared might have had his vague surmises when I littleunderstood his meaning, but in whose silence after our last interviewI expressed perfect confidence.
"Well," said my guardian. "Then we may dismiss him for the present.Who is the other?"
I called to his recollection the French maid and the eager offer ofherself she had made to me.
"Ha!" he returned thoughtfully. "That is a more alarming person thanthe clerk. But after all, my dear, it was but seeking for a newservice. She had seen you and Ada a little while before, and it wasnatural that you should come into her head. She merely proposedherself for your maid, you know. She did nothing more."
"Her manner was strange," said I.
"Yes, and her manner was strange when she took her shoes off andshowed that cool relish for a walk that might have ended in herdeath-bed," said my guardian. "It would be useless self-distress andtorment to reckon up such chances and possibilities. There are veryfew harmless circumstances that would not seem full of perilousmeaning, so considered. Be hopeful, little woman. You can be nothingbetter than yourself; be that, through this knowledge, as you werebefore you had it. It is the best you can do for everybody's sake. I,sharing the secret with you--"
"And lightening it, guardian, so much," said I.
"--will be attentive to what passes in that family, so far as I canobserve it from my distance. And if the time should come when I canstretch out a hand to render the least service to one whom it isbetter not to name even here, I will not fail to do it for her deardaughter's sake."
I thanked him with my whole heart. What could I ever do but thankhim! I was going out at the door when he asked me to stay a moment.Quickly turning round, I saw that same expression on his face again;and all at once, I don't know how, it flashed upon me as a new andfar-off possibility that I understood it.
"My dear Esther," said my guardian, "I have long had something in mythoughts that I have wished to say to you."
"Indeed?"
"I have had some difficulty in approaching it, and I still have. Ishould wish it to be so deliberately said, and so deliberatelyconsidered. Would you object to my writing it?"
"Dear guardian, how could I object to your writing anything for ME toread?"
"Then see, my love," said he with his cheery smile, "am I at thismoment quite as plain and easy--do I seem as open, as honest andold-fashioned--as I am at any time?"
I answered in all earnestness, "Quite." With the strictest truth, forhis momentary hesitation was gone (it had not lasted a minute), andhis fine, sensible, cordial, sterling manner was restored.
"Do I look as if I suppressed anything, meant anything but what Isaid, had any reservation at all, no matter what?" said he with hisbright clear eyes on mine.
I answered, most assuredly he did not.
"Can you fully trust me, and thoroughly rely on what I profess,Esther?"
"Most thoroughly," said I with my whole heart.
"My dear girl," returned my guardian, "give me your hand."
He took it in his, holding me lightly with his arm, and looking downinto my face with the same genuine freshness and faithfulness ofmanner--the old protecting manner which had made that house my homein a moment--said, "You have wrought changes in me, little woman,since the winter day in the stage-coach. First and last you have doneme a world of good since that time."
"Ah, guardian, what have you done for me since that time!"
"But," said he, "that is not to be remembered now."
"It never can be forgotten."
"Yes, Esther," said he with a gentle seriousness, "it is to beforgotten now, to be forgotten for a while. You are only to remembernow that nothing can change me as you know me. Can you feel quiteassured of that, my dear?"
"I can, and I do," I said.
"That's much," he answered. "That's everything. But I must not takethat at a word. I will not write this something in my thoughts untilyou have quite resolved within yourself that nothing can change me asyou know me. If you doubt that in the least degree, I will neverwrite it. If you are sure of that, on good consideration, sendCharley to me this night week--'for the letter.' But if you are notquite certain, never send. Mind, I trust to your truth, in this thingas in everything. If you are not quite certain on that one point,never send!"
"Guardian," said I, "I am already certain, I can no more be changedin that conviction than you can be changed towards me. I shall sendCharley for the letter."
He shook my hand and said no more. Nor was any more said in referenceto this conversation, either by him or me, through the whole week.When the appointed night came, I said to Charley as soon as I wasalone, "Go and knock at Mr. Jarndyce's door, Charley, and say youhave come from me--'for the letter.'" Charley went up the stairs, anddown the stairs, and along the passages--the zig-zag way about theold-fashioned house seemed very long in my listening ears thatnight--and so came back, along the passages, and down the stairs, andup the stairs, and brought the letter. "Lay it on the table,Charley," said I. So Charley laid it on the table and went to bed,and I sat looking at it without taking it up, thinking of manythings.
I began with my overshadowed childhood, and passed through thosetimid days to the heavy time when my aunt lay dead, with her resoluteface so cold and set, and when I was more solitary with Mrs. Rachaelthan if I had had no one in the world to speak to or to look at. Ipassed to the altered days when I was so blest as to find friends inall around me, and to be beloved. I came to the time when I first sawmy dear girl and was received into that sisterly affection which wasthe grace and beauty of my life. I recalled the first bright gleam ofwelcome which had shone out of those very windows upon our expectantfaces on that cold bright night, and which had never paled. I livedmy happy life there over again, I went through my illness andrecovery, I thought of myself so altered and of those around me sounchanged; and all this happiness shone like a light from one centralfigure, represented before me by the letter on the table.
I opened it and read it. It was so impressive in its love for me, andin the unselfish caution it gave me, and the consideration it showedfor me in every word, that my eyes were too often blinded to readmuch at a time. But I read it through three times before I laid itdown. I had thought beforehand that I knew its purport, and I did. Itasked me, would I be the mistress of Bleak House.
It was not a love letter, though it expressed so much love, but waswritten just as he would at any time have spoken to me. I saw hisface, and heard his voice, and felt the influence of his kindprotecting manner in every line. It addressed me as if our placeswere reversed, as if all the good deeds had been mine and all thefeelings they had awakened his. It dwelt on my being young, and hepast the prime of life; on his having attained a ripe age, while Iwas a child; on his writing to me with a silvered head, and knowingall this so well as to set it in full before me for maturedeliberation. It told me that I would gain nothing by such a marriageand lose nothing by rejecting it, for no new relation could enhancethe tenderness in which he held me, and whatever my decision was, hewas certain it would be right. But he had considered this step anewsince our late confidence and had decided on taking it, if it onlyserved to show me through one poor instance that the whole worldwould readily unite to falsify the stern prediction of my childhood.I was the last to know what happiness I could bestow upon him, but ofthat he said no more, for I was always to remember that I owed himnothing and that he was my debtor, and for very much. He had oftenthought of our future, and foreseeing that the time must come, andfearing that it might come soon, when Ada (now very nearly of age)would leave us, and when our present mode of life must be broken up,had become accustomed to reflect on this proposal. Thus he made it.If I felt that I could ever give him the best right he could have tobe my protector, and if I felt that I could happily and justly becomethe dear companion of his remaining life, superior to all lighterchances and changes than death, even then he could not have me bindmyself irrevocably while this letter was yet so new to me, but eventhen I must have ample time for reconsideration. In that case, or inthe opposite case, let him be unchanged in his old relation, in hisold manner, in the old name by which I called him. And as to hisbright Dame Durden and little housekeeper, she would ever be thesame, he knew.
This was the substance of the letter, written throughout with ajustice and a dignity as if he were indeed my responsible guardianimpartially representing the proposal of a friend against whom in hisintegrity he stated the full case.
But he did not hint to me that when I had been better looking he hadhad this same proceeding in his thoughts and had refrained from it.That when my old face was gone from me, and I had no attractions, hecould love me just as well as in my fairer days. That the discoveryof my birth gave him no shock. That his generosity rose above mydisfigurement and my inheritance of shame. That the more I stood inneed of such fidelity, the more firmly I might trust in him to thelast.
But I knew it, I knew it well now. It came upon me as the close ofthe benignant history I had been pursuing, and I felt that I had butone thing to do. To devote my life to his happiness was to thank himpoorly, and what had I wished for the other night but some new meansof thanking him?
Still I cried very much, not only in the fullness of my heart afterreading the letter, not only in the strangeness of the prospect--forit was strange though I had expected the contents--but as ifsomething for which there was no name or distinct idea wereindefinitely lost to me. I was very happy, very thankful, veryhopeful; but I cried very much.
By and by I went to my old glass. My eyes were red and swollen, and Isaid, "Oh, Esther, Esther, can that be you!" I am afraid the face inthe glass was going to cry again at this reproach, but I held up myfinger at it, and it stopped.
"That is more like the composed look you comforted me with, my dear,when you showed me such a change!" said I, beginning to let down myhair. "When you are mistress of Bleak House, you are to be ascheerful as a bird. In fact, you are always to be cheerful; so let usbegin for once and for all."
I went on with my hair now, quite comfortably. I sobbed a littlestill, but that was because I had been crying, not because I wascrying then.
"And so Esther, my dear, you are happy for life. Happy with your bestfriends, happy in your old home, happy in the power of doing a greatdeal of good, and happy in the undeserved love of the best of men."
I thought, all at once, if my guardian had married some one else, howshould I have felt, and what should I have done! That would have beena change indeed. It presented my life in such a new and blank formthat I rang my housekeeping keys and gave them a kiss before I laidthem down in their basket again.
Then I went on to think, as I dressed my hair before the glass, howoften had I considered within myself that the deep traces of myillness and the circumstances of my birth were only new reasons why Ishould be busy, busy, busy--useful, amiable, serviceable, in allhonest, unpretending ways. This was a good time, to be sure, to sitdown morbidly and cry! As to its seeming at all strange to me atfirst (if that were any excuse for crying, which it was not) that Iwas one day to be the mistress of Bleak House, why should it seemstrange? Other people had thought of such things, if I had not."Don't you remember, my plain dear," I asked myself, looking at theglass, "what Mrs. Woodcourt said before those scars were there aboutyour marrying--"
Perhaps the name brought them to my remembrance. The dried remains ofthe flowers. It would be better not to keep them now. They had onlybeen preserved in memory of something wholly past and gone, but itwould be better not to keep them now.
They were in a book, and it happened to be in the next room--oursitting-room, dividing Ada's chamber from mine. I took a candle andwent softly in to fetch it from its shelf. After I had it in my hand,I saw my beautiful darling, through the open door, lying asleep, andI stole in to kiss her.
It was weak in me, I know, and I could have no reason for crying; butI dropped a tear upon her dear face, and another, and another. Weakerthan that, I took the withered flowers out and put them for a momentto her lips. I thought about her love for Richard, though, indeed,the flowers had nothing to do with that. Then I took them into my ownroom and burned them at the candle, and they were dust in an instant.
On entering the breakfast-room next morning, I found my guardian justas usual, quite as frank, as open, and free. There being not theleast constraint in his manner, there was none (or I think there wasnone) in mine. I was with him several times in the course of themorning, in and out, when there was no one there, and I thought itnot unlikely that he might speak to me about the letter, but he didnot say a word.
So, on the next morning, and the next, and for at least a week, overwhich time Mr. Skimpole prolonged his stay. I expected, every day,that my guardian might speak to me about the letter, but he neverdid.
I thought then, growing uneasy, that I ought to write an answer. Itried over and over again in my own room at night, but I could notwrite an answer that at all began like a good answer, so I thoughteach night I would wait one more day. And I waited seven more days,and he never said a word.
At last, Mr. Skimpole having departed, we three were one afternoongoing out for a ride; and I, being dressed before Ada and going down,came upon my guardian, with his back towards me, standing at thedrawing-room window looking out.
He turned on my coming in and said, smiling, "Aye, it's you, littlewoman, is it?" and looked out again.
I had made up my mind to speak to him now. In short, I had come downon purpose. "Guardian," I said, rather hesitating and trembling,"when would you like to have the answer to the letter Charley camefor?"
"When it's ready, my dear," he replied.
"I think it is ready," said I.
"Is Charley to bring it?" he asked pleasantly.
"No. I have brought it myself, guardian," I returned.
I put my two arms round his neck and kissed him, and he said was thisthe mistress of Bleak House, and I said yes; and it made nodifference presently, and we all went out together, and I saidnothing to my precious pet about it.



CHAPTER XLV
In Trust

One morning when I had done jingling about with my baskets of keys,as my beauty and I were walking round and round the garden I happenedto turn my eyes towards the house and saw a long thin shadow going inwhich looked like Mr. Vholes. Ada had been telling me only thatmorning of her hopes that Richard might exhaust his ardour in theChancery suit by being so very earnest in it; and therefore, not todamp my dear girl's spirits, I said nothing about Mr. Vholes'sshadow.
Presently came Charley, lightly winding among the bushes and trippingalong the paths, as rosy and pretty as one of Flora's attendantsinstead of my maid, saying, "Oh, if you please, miss, would you stepand speak to Mr. Jarndyce!"
It was one of Charley's peculiarities that whenever she was chargedwith a message she always began to deliver it as soon as she beheld,at any distance, the person for whom it was intended. Therefore I sawCharley asking me in her usual form of words to "step and speak" toMr. Jarndyce long before I heard her. And when I did hear her, shehad said it so often that she was out of breath.
I told Ada I would make haste back and inquired of Charley as we wentin whether there was not a gentleman with Mr. Jarndyce. To whichCharley, whose grammar, I confess to my shame, never did any creditto my educational powers, replied, "Yes, miss. Him as come down inthe country with Mr. Richard."
A more complete contrast than my guardian and Mr. Vholes I supposethere could not be. I found them looking at one another across atable, the one so open and the other so close, the one so broad andupright and the other so narrow and stooping, the one giving out whathe had to say in such a rich ringing voice and the other keeping itin in such a cold-blooded, gasping, fish-like manner that I thought Inever had seen two people so unmatched.
"You know Mr. Vholes, my dear," said my guardian. Not with thegreatest urbanity, I must say.
Mr. Vholes rose, gloved and buttoned up as usual, and seated himselfagain, just as he had seated himself beside Richard in the gig. Nothaving Richard to look at, he looked straight before him.
"Mr. Vholes," said my guardian, eyeing his black figure as if he werea bird of ill omen, "has brought an ugly report of our mostunfortunate Rick." Laying a marked emphasis on "most unfortunate" asif the words were rather descriptive of his connexion with Mr.Vholes.
I sat down between them; Mr. Vholes remained immovable, except thathe secretly picked at one of the red pimples on his yellow face withhis black glove.
"And as Rick and you are happily good friends, I should like toknow," said my guardian, "what you think, my dear. Would you be sogood as to--as to speak up, Mr. Vholes?"
Doing anything but that, Mr. Vholes observed, "I have been sayingthat I have reason to know, Miss Summerson, as Mr. C.'s professionaladviser, that Mr. C.'s circumstances are at the present moment in anembarrassed state. Not so much in point of amount as owing to thepeculiar and pressing nature of liabilities Mr. C. has incurred andthe means he has of liquidating or meeting the same. I have stavedoff many little matters for Mr. C., but there is a limit to stavingoff, and we have reached it. I have made some advances out of pocketto accommodate these unpleasantnesses, but I necessarily look tobeing repaid, for I do not pretend to be a man of capital, and I havea father to support in the Vale of Taunton, besides striving torealize some little independence for three dear girls at home. Myapprehension is, Mr. C.'s circumstances being such, lest it shouldend in his obtaining leave to part with his commission, which at allevents is desirable to be made known to his connexions."
Mr. Vholes, who had looked at me while speaking, here emerged intothe silence he could hardly be said to have broken, so stifled washis tone, and looked before him again.
"Imagine the poor fellow without even his present resource," said myguardian to me. "Yet what can I do? You know him, Esther. He wouldnever accept of help from me now. To offer it or hint at it would beto drive him to an extremity, if nothing else did."
Mr. Vholes hereupon addressed me again.
"What Mr. Jarndyce remarks, miss, is no doubt the case, and is thedifficulty. I do not see that anything is to be done. I do not saythat anything is to be done. Far from it. I merely come down hereunder the seal of confidence and mention it in order that everythingmay be openly carried on and that it may not be said afterwards thateverything was not openly carried on. My wish is that everythingshould be openly carried on. I desire to leave a good name behind me.If I consulted merely my own interests with Mr. C., I should not behere. So insurmountable, as you must well know, would be hisobjections. This is not a professional attendance. This can hecharged to nobody. I have no interest in it except as a member ofsociety and a father--AND a son," said Mr. Vholes, who had nearlyforgotten that point.
It appeared to us that Mr. Vholes said neither more nor less than thetruth in intimating that he sought to divide the responsibility, suchas it was, of knowing Richard's situation. I could only suggest thatI should go down to Deal, where Richard was then stationed, and seehim, and try if it were possible to avert the worst. Withoutconsulting Mr. Vholes on this point, I took my guardian aside topropose it, while Mr. Vholes gauntly stalked to the fire and warmedhis funeral gloves.
The fatigue of the journey formed an immediate objection on myguardian's part, but as I saw he had no other, and as I was only toohappy to go, I got his consent. We had then merely to dispose of Mr.Vholes.
"Well, sir," said Mr. Jarndyce, "Miss Summerson will communicate withMr. Carstone, and you can only hope that his position may be yetretrievable. You will allow me to order you lunch after your journey,sir."
"I thank you, Mr. Jarndyce," said Mr. Vholes, putting out his longblack sleeve to check the ringing of the bell, "not any. I thank you,no, not a morsel. My digestion is much impaired, and I am but a poorknife and fork at any time. If I was to partake of solid food at thisperiod of the day, I don't know what the consequences might be.Everything having been openly carried on, sir, I will now with yourpermission take my leave."
"And I would that you could take your leave, and we could all takeour leave, Mr. Vholes," returned my guardian bitterly, "of a causeyou know of."
Mr. Vholes, whose black dye was so deep from head to foot that it hadquite steamed before the fire, diffusing a very unpleasant perfume,made a short one-sided inclination of his head from the neck andslowly shook it.
"We whose ambition it is to be looked upon in the light ofrespectable practitioners, sir, can but put our shoulders to thewheel. We do it, sir. At least, I do it myself; and I wish to thinkwell of my professional brethren, one and all. You are sensible of anobligation not to refer to me, miss, in communicating with Mr. C.?"
I said I would be careful not to do it.
"Just so, miss. Good morning. Mr. Jarndyce, good morning, sir." Mr.Vholes put his dead glove, which scarcely seemed to have any hand init, on my fingers, and then on my guardian's fingers, and took hislong thin shadow away. I thought of it on the outside of the coach,passing over all the sunny landscape between us and London, chillingthe seed in the ground as it glided along.
Of course it became necessary to tell Ada where I was going and why Iwas going, and of course she was anxious and distressed. But she wastoo true to Richard to say anything but words of pity and words ofexcuse, and in a more loving spirit still--my dear devoted girl!--shewrote him a long letter, of which I took charge.
Charley was to be my travelling companion, though I am sure I wantednone and would willingly have left her at home. We all went to Londonthat afternoon, and finding two places in the mail, secured them. Atour usual bed-time, Charley and I were rolling away seaward with theKentish letters.
It was a night's journey in those coach times, but we had the mail toourselves and did not find the night very tedious. It passed with meas I suppose it would with most people under such circumstances. Atone while my journey looked hopeful, and at another hopeless. Now Ithought I should do some good, and now I wondered how I could everhave supposed so. Now it seemed one of the most reasonable things inthe world that I should have come, and now one of the mostunreasonable. In what state I should find Richard, what I should sayto him, and what he would say to me occupied my mind by turns withthese two states of feeling; and the wheels seemed to play one tune(to which the burden of my guardian's letter set itself) over andover again all night.
At last we came into the narrow streets of Deal, and very gloomy theywere upon a raw misty morning. The long flat beach, with its littleirregular houses, wooden and brick, and its litter of capstans, andgreat boats, and sheds, and bare upright poles with tackle andblocks, and loose gravelly waste places overgrown with grass andweeds, wore as dull an appearance as any place I ever saw. The seawas heaving under a thick white fog; and nothing else was moving buta few early ropemakers, who, with the yarn twisted round theirbodies, looked as if, tired of their present state of existence, theywere spinning themselves into cordage.
But when we got into a warm room in an excellent hotel and sat down,comfortably washed and dressed, to an early breakfast (for it was toolate to think of going to bed), Deal began to look more cheerful. Ourlittle room was like a ship's cabin, and that delighted Charley verymuch. Then the fog began to rise like a curtain, and numbers of shipsthat we had had no idea were near appeared. I don't know how manysail the waiter told us were then lying in the downs. Some of thesevessels were of grand size--one was a large Indiaman just come home;and when the sun shone through the clouds, making silvery pools inthe dark sea, the way in which these ships brightened, and shadowed,and changed, amid a bustle of boats pulling off from the shore tothem and from them to the shore, and a general life and motion inthemselves and everything around them, was most beautiful.
The large Indiaman was our great attraction because she had come intothe downs in the night. She was surrounded by boats, and we said howglad the people on board of her must be to come ashore. Charley wascurious, too, about the voyage, and about the heat in India, and theserpents and the tigers; and as she picked up such information muchfaster than grammar, I told her what I knew on those points. I toldher, too, how people in such voyages were sometimes wrecked and caston rocks, where they were saved by the intrepidity and humanity ofone man. And Charley asking how that could be, I told her how we knewat home of such a case.
I had thought of sending Richard a note saying I was there, but itseemed so much better to go to him without preparation. As he livedin barracks I was a little doubtful whether this was feasible, but wewent out to reconnoitre. Peeping in at the gate of the barrack-yard,we found everything very quiet at that time in the morning, and Iasked a sergeant standing on the guardhouse-steps where he lived. Hesent a man before to show me, who went up some bare stairs, andknocked with his knuckles at a door, and left us.
"Now then!" cried Richard from within. So I left Charley in thelittle passage, and going on to the half-open door, said, "Can I comein, Richard? It's only Dame Durden."
He was writing at a table, with a great confusion of clothes, tincases, books, boots, brushes, and portmanteaus strewn all about thefloor. He was only half dressed--in plain clothes, I observed, not inuniform--and his hair was unbrushed, and he looked as wild as hisroom. All this I saw after he had heartily welcomed me and I wasseated near him, for he started upon hearing my voice and caught mein his arms in a moment. Dear Richard! He was ever the same to me.Down to--ah, poor poor fellow!--to the end, he never received me butwith something of his old merry boyish manner.
"Good heaven, my dear little woman," said he, "how do you come here?Who could have thought of seeing you! Nothing the matter? Ada iswell?"
"Quite well. Lovelier than ever, Richard!"
"Ah!" he said, leaning back in his chair. "My poor cousin! I waswriting to you, Esther."
So worn and haggard as he looked, even in the fullness of hishandsome youth, leaning back in his chair and crushing the closelywritten sheet of paper in his hand!
"Have you been at the trouble of writing all that, and am I not toread it after all?" I asked.
"Oh, my dear," he returned with a hopeless gesture. "You may read itin the whole room. It is all over here."
I mildly entreated him not to be despondent. I told him that I hadheard by chance of his being in difficulty and had come to consultwith him what could best be done.
"Like you, Esther, but useless, and so NOT like you!" said he with amelancholy smile. "I am away on leave this day--should have been gonein another hour--and that is to smooth it over, for my selling out.Well! Let bygones be bygones. So this calling follows the rest. Ionly want to have been in the church to have made the round of allthe professions."
"Richard," I urged, "it is not so hopeless as that?"
"Esther," he returned, "it is indeed. I am just so near disgrace asthat those who are put in authority over me (as the catechism goes)would far rather be without me than with me. And they are right.Apart from debts and duns and all such drawbacks, I am not fit evenfor this employment. I have no care, no mind, no heart, no soul, butfor one thing. Why, if this bubble hadn't broken now," he said,tearing the letter he had written into fragments and moodily castingthem away, by driblets, "how could I have gone abroad? I must havebeen ordered abroad, but how could I have gone? How could I, with myexperience of that thing, trust even Vholes unless I was at hisback!"
I suppose he knew by my face what I was about to say, but he caughtthe hand I had laid upon his arm and touched my own lips with it toprevent me from going on.
"No, Dame Durden! Two subjects I forbid--must forbid. The first isJohn Jarndyce. The second, you know what. Call it madness, and I tellyou I can't help it now, and can't be sane. But it is no such thing;it is the one object I have to pursue. It is a pity I ever wasprevailed upon to turn out of my road for any other. It would bewisdom to abandon it now, after all the time, anxiety, and pains Ihave bestowed upon it! Oh, yes, true wisdom. It would be veryagreeable, too, to some people; but I never will."
He was in that mood in which I thought it best not to increase hisdetermination (if anything could increase it) by opposing him. I tookout Ada's letter and put it in his hand.
"Am I to read it now?" he asked.
As I told him yes, he laid it on the table, and resting his head uponhis hand, began. He had not read far when he rested his head upon histwo hands--to hide his face from me. In a little while he rose as ifthe light were bad and went to the window. He finished reading itthere, with his back towards me, and after he had finished and hadfolded it up, stood there for some minutes with the letter in hishand. When he came back to his chair, I saw tears in his eyes.
"Of course, Esther, you know what she says here?" He spoke in asoftened voice and kissed the letter as he asked me.
"Yes, Richard."
"Offers me," he went on, tapping his foot upon the floor, "the littleinheritance she is certain of so soon--just as little and as much asI have wasted--and begs and prays me to take it, set myself rightwith it, and remain in the service."
"I know your welfare to be the dearest wish of her heart," said I."And, oh, my dear Richard, Ada's is a noble heart."
"I am sure it is. I--I wish I was dead!"
He went back to the window, and laying his arm across it, leaned hishead down on his arm. It greatly affected me to see him so, but Ihoped he might become more yielding, and I remained silent. Myexperience was very limited; I was not at all prepared for hisrousing himself out of this emotion to a new sense of injury.
"And this is the heart that the same John Jarndyce, who is nototherwise to be mentioned between us, stepped in to estrange fromme," said he indignantly. "And the dear girl makes me this generousoffer from under the same John Jarndyce's roof, and with the sameJohn Jarndyce's gracious consent and connivance, I dare say, as a newmeans of buying me off."
"Richard!" I cried out, rising hastily. "I will not hear you say suchshameful words!" I was very angry with him indeed, for the first timein my life, but it only lasted a moment. When I saw his worn youngface looking at me as if he were sorry, I put my hand on his shoulderand said, "If you please, my dear Richard, do not speak in such atone to me. Consider!"
He blamed himself exceedingly and told me in the most generous mannerthat he had been very wrong and that he begged my pardon a thousandtimes. At that I laughed, but trembled a little too, for I was ratherfluttered after being so fiery.
"To accept this offer, my dear Esther," said he, sitting down besideme and resuming our conversation, "--once more, pray, pray forgiveme; I am deeply grieved--to accept my dearest cousin's offer is, Ineed not say, impossible. Besides, I have letters and papers that Icould show you which would convince you it is all over here. I havedone with the red coat, believe me. But it is some satisfaction, inthe midst of my troubles and perplexities, to know that I am pressingAda's interests in pressing my own. Vholes has his shoulder to thewheel, and he cannot help urging it on as much for her as for me,thank God!"
His sanguine hopes were rising within him and lighting up hisfeatures, but they made his face more sad to me than it had beenbefore.
"No, no!" cried Richard exultingly. "If every farthing of Ada'slittle fortune were mine, no part of it should be spent in retainingme in what I am not fit for, can take no interest in, and am wearyof. It should be devoted to what promises a better return, and shouldbe used where she has a larger stake. Don't be uneasy for me! I shallnow have only one thing on my mind, and Vholes and I will work it. Ishall not be without means. Free of my commission, I shall be able tocompound with some small usurers who will hear of nothing but theirbond now--Vholes says so. I should have a balance in my favouranyway, but that would swell it. Come, come! You shall carry a letterto Ada from me, Esther, and you must both of you be more hopeful ofme and not believe that I am quite cast away just yet, my dear."
I will not repeat what I said to Richard. I know it was tiresome, andnobody is to suppose for a moment that it was at all wise. It onlycame from my heart. He heard it patiently and feelingly, but I sawthat on the two subjects he had reserved it was at present hopelessto make any representation to him. I saw too, and had experienced inthis very interview, the sense of my guardian's remark that it waseven more mischievous to use persuasion with him than to leave him ashe was.
Therefore I was driven at last to asking Richard if he would mindconvincing me that it really was all over there, as he had said, andthat it was not his mere impression. He showed me without hesitationa correspondence making it quite plain that his retirement wasarranged. I found, from what he told me, that Mr. Vholes had copiesof these papers and had been in consultation with him throughout.Beyond ascertaining this, and having been the bearer of Ada's letter,and being (as I was going to be) Richard's companion back to London,I had done no good by coming down. Admitting this to myself with areluctant heart, I said I would return to the hotel and wait until hejoined me there, so he threw a cloak over his shoulders and saw me tothe gate, and Charley and I went back along the beach.
There was a concourse of people in one spot, surrounding some navalofficers who were landing from a boat, and pressing about them withunusual interest. I said to Charley this would be one of the greatIndiaman's boats now, and we stopped to look.
The gentlemen came slowly up from the waterside, speakinggood-humouredly to each other and to the people around and glancingabout them as if they were glad to be in England again. "Charley,Charley," said I, "come away!" And I hurried on so swiftly that mylittle maid was surprised.
It was not until we were shut up in our cabin-room and I had had timeto take breath that I began to think why I had made such haste. Inone of the sunburnt faces I had recognized Mr. Allan Woodcourt, and Ihad been afraid of his recognizing me. I had been unwilling that heshould see my altered looks. I had been taken by surprise, and mycourage had quite failed me.
But I knew this would not do, and I now said to myself, "My dear,there is no reason--there is and there can be no reason at all--whyit should be worse for you now than it ever has been. What you werelast month, you are to-day; you are no worse, you are no better. Thisis not your resolution; call it up, Esther, call it up!" I was in agreat tremble--with running--and at first was quite unable to calmmyself; but I got better, and I was very glad to know it.
The party came to the hotel. I heard them speaking on the staircase.I was sure it was the same gentlemen because I knew their voicesagain--I mean I knew Mr. Woodcourt's. It would still have been agreat relief to me to have gone away without making myself known, butI was determined not to do so. "No, my dear, no. No, no, no!"
I untied my bonnet and put my veil half up--I think I mean half down,but it matters very little--and wrote on one of my cards that Ihappened to be there with Mr. Richard Carstone, and I sent it in toMr. Woodcourt. He came immediately. I told him I was rejoiced to beby chance among the first to welcome him home to England. And I sawthat he was very sorry for me.
"You have been in shipwreck and peril since you left us, Mr.Woodcourt," said I, "but we can hardly call that a misfortune whichenabled you to be so useful and so brave. We read of it with thetruest interest. It first came to my knowledge through your oldpatient, poor Miss Flite, when I was recovering from my severeillness."
"Ah! Little Miss Flite!" he said. "She lives the same life yet?"
"Just the same."
I was so comfortable with myself now as not to mind the veil and tobe able to put it aside.
"Her gratitude to you, Mr. Woodcourt, is delightful. She is a mostaffectionate creature, as I have reason to say."
"You--you have found her so?" he returned. "I--I am glad of that." Hewas so very sorry for me that he could scarcely speak.
"I assure you," said I, "that I was deeply touched by her sympathyand pleasure at the time I have referred to."
"I was grieved to hear that you had been very ill."
"I was very ill."
"But you have quite recovered?"
"I have quite recovered my health and my cheerfulness," said I. "Youknow how good my guardian is and what a happy life we lead, and Ihave everything to be thankful for and nothing in the world todesire."
I felt as if he had greater commiseration for me than I had ever hadfor myself. It inspired me with new fortitude and new calmness tofind that it was I who was under the necessity of reassuring him. Ispoke to him of his voyage out and home, and of his future plans, andof his probable return to India. He said that was very doubtful. Hehad not found himself more favoured by fortune there than here. Hehad gone out a poor ship's surgeon and had come home nothing better.While we were talking, and when I was glad to believe that I hadalleviated (if I may use such a term) the shock he had had in seeingme, Richard came in. He had heard downstairs who was with me, andthey met with cordial pleasure.
I saw that after their first greetings were over, and when they spokeof Richard's career, Mr. Woodcourt had a perception that all was notgoing well with him. He frequently glanced at his face as if therewere something in it that gave him pain, and more than once he lookedtowards me as though he sought to ascertain whether I knew what thetruth was. Yet Richard was in one of his sanguine states and in goodspirits and was thoroughly pleased to see Mr. Woodcourt again, whomhe had always liked.
Richard proposed that we all should go to London together; but Mr.Woodcourt, having to remain by his ship a little longer, could notjoin us. He dined with us, however, at an early hour, and became somuch more like what he used to be that I was still more at peace tothink I had been able to soften his regrets. Yet his mind was notrelieved of Richard. When the coach was almost ready and Richard randown to look after his luggage, he spoke to me about him.
I was not sure that I had a right to lay his whole story open, but Ireferred in a few words to his estrangement from Mr Jarndyce and tohis being entangled in the ill-fated Chancery suit. Mr. Woodcourtlistened with interest and expressed his regret.
"I saw you observe him rather closely," said I, "Do you think him sochanged?"
"He is changed," he returned, shaking his head.
I felt the blood rush into my face for the first time, but it wasonly an instantaneous emotion. I turned my head aside, and it wasgone.
"It is not," said Mr. Woodcourt, "his being so much younger or older,or thinner or fatter, or paler or ruddier, as there being upon hisface such a singular expression. I never saw so remarkable a look ina young person. One cannot say that it is all anxiety or allweariness; yet it is both, and like ungrown despair."
"You do not think he is ill?" said I.
No. He looked robust in body.
"That he cannot be at peace in mind, we have too much reason toknow," I proceeded. "Mr. Woodcourt, you are going to London?"
"To-morrow or the next day."
"There is nothing Richard wants so much as a friend. He always likedyou. Pray see him when you get there. Pray help him sometimes withyour companionship if you can. You do not know of what service itmight be. You cannot think how Ada, and Mr. Jarndyce, and even I--howwe should all thank you, Mr. Woodcourt!"
"Miss Summerson," he said, more moved than he had been from thefirst, "before heaven, I will be a true friend to him! I will accepthim as a trust, and it shall be a sacred one!"
"God bless you!" said I, with my eyes filling fast; but I thoughtthey might, when it was not for myself. "Ada loves him--we all lovehim, but Ada loves him as we cannot. I will tell her what you say.Thank you, and God bless you, in her name!"
Richard came back as we finished exchanging these hurried words andgave me his arm to take me to the coach.
"Woodcourt," he said, unconscious with what application, "pray let usmeet in London!"
"Meet?" returned the other. "I have scarcely a friend there now butyou. Where shall I find you?"
"Why, I must get a lodging of some sort," said Richard, pondering."Say at Vholes's, Symond's Inn."
"Good! Without loss of time."
They shook hands heartily. When I was seated in the coach and Richardwas yet standing in the street, Mr. Woodcourt laid his friendly handon Richard's shoulder and looked at me. I understood him and wavedmine in thanks.
And in his last look as we drove away, I saw that he was very sorryfor me. I was glad to see it. I felt for my old self as the dead mayfeel if they ever revisit these scenes. I was glad to be tenderlyremembered, to be gently pitied, not to be quite forgotten.



CHAPTER XLVI
Stop Him!

Darkness rests upon Tom-All-Alone's. Dilating and dilating since thesun went down last night, it has gradually swelled until it fillsevery void in the place. For a time there were some dungeon lightsburning, as the lamp of life hums in Tom-all-Alone's, heavily,heavily, in the nauseous air, and winking--as that lamp, too, winksin Tom-all-Alone's--at many horrible things. But they are blottedout. The moon has eyed Tom with a dull cold stare, as admitting somepuny emulation of herself in his desert region unfit for life andblasted by volcanic fires; but she has passed on and is gone. Theblackest nightmare in the infernal stables grazes on Tom-all-Alone's,and Tom is fast asleep.
Much mighty speech-making there has been, both in and out ofParliament, concerning Tom, and much wrathful disputation how Tomshall be got right. Whether he shall be put into the main road byconstables, or by beadles, or by bell-ringing, or by force offigures, or by correct principles of taste, or by high church, or bylow church, or by no church; whether he shall be set to splittingtrusses of polemical straws with the crooked knife of his mind orwhether he shall be put to stone-breaking instead. In the midst ofwhich dust and noise there is but one thing perfectly clear, to wit,that Tom only may and can, or shall and will, be reclaimed accordingto somebody's theory but nobody's practice. And in the hopefulmeantime, Tom goes to perdition head foremost in his old determinedspirit.
But he has his revenge. Even the winds are his messengers, and theyserve him in these hours of darkness. There is not a drop of Tom'scorrupted blood but propagates infection and contagion somewhere. Itshall pollute, this very night, the choice stream (in which chemistson analysis would find the genuine nobility) of a Norman house, andhis Grace shall not be able to say nay to the infamous alliance.There is not an atom of Tom's slime, not a cubic inch of anypestilential gas in which he lives, not one obscenity or degradationabout him, not an ignorance, not a wickedness, not a brutality of hiscommitting, but shall work its retribution through every order ofsociety up to the proudest of the proud and to the highest of thehigh. Verily, what with tainting, plundering, and spoiling, Tom hashis revenge.
It is a moot point whether Tom-all-Alone's be uglier by day or bynight, but on the argument that the more that is seen of it the moreshocking it must be, and that no part of it left to the imaginationis at all likely to be made so bad as the reality, day carries it.The day begins to break now; and in truth it might be better for thenational glory even that the sun should sometimes set upon theBritish dominions than that it should ever rise upon so vile a wonderas Tom.
A brown sunburnt gentleman, who appears in some inaptitude for sleepto be wandering abroad rather than counting the hours on a restlesspillow, strolls hitherward at this quiet time. Attracted bycuriosity, he often pauses and looks about him, up and down themiserable by-ways. Nor is he merely curious, for in his bright darkeye there is compassionate interest; and as he looks here and there,he seems to understand such wretchedness and to have studied itbefore.
On the banks of the stagnant channel of mud which is the main streetof Tom-all-Alone's, nothing is to be seen but the crazy houses, shutup and silent. No waking creature save himself appears except in onedirection, where he sees the solitary figure of a woman sitting on adoor-step. He walks that way. Approaching, he observes that she hasjourneyed a long distance and is footsore and travel-stained. Shesits on the door-step in the manner of one who is waiting, with herelbow on her knee and her head upon her hand. Beside her is a canvasbag, or bundle, she has carried. She is dozing probably, for shegives no heed to his steps as he comes toward her.
The broken footway is so narrow that when Allan Woodcourt comes towhere the woman sits, he has to turn into the road to pass her.Looking down at her face, his eye meets hers, and he stops.
"What is the matter?"
"Nothing, sir."
"Can't you make them hear? Do you want to be let in?"
"I'm waiting till they get up at another house--a lodging-house--nothere," the woman patiently returns. "I'm waiting here because therewill be sun here presently to warm me."
"I am afraid you are tired. I am sorry to see you sitting in thestreet."
"Thank you, sir. It don't matter."
A habit in him of speaking to the poor and of avoiding patronage orcondescension or childishness (which is the favourite device, manypeople deeming it quite a subtlety to talk to them like littlespelling books) has put him on good terms with the woman easily.
"Let me look at your forehead," he says, bending down. "I am adoctor. Don't be afraid. I wouldn't hurt you for the world."
He knows that by touching her with his skilful and accustomed hand hecan soothe her yet more readily. She makes a slight objection,saying, "It's nothing"; but he has scarcely laid his fingers on thewounded place when she lifts it up to the light.
"Aye! A bad bruise, and the skin sadly broken. This must be verysore."
"It do ache a little, sir," returns the woman with a started tearupon her cheek.
"Let me try to make it more comfortable. My handkerchief won't hurtyou."
"Oh, dear no, sir, I'm sure of that!"
He cleanses the injured place and dries it, and having carefullyexamined it and gently pressed it with the palm of his hand, takes asmall case from his pocket, dresses it, and binds it up. While he isthus employed, he says, after laughing at his establishing a surgeryin the street, "And so your husband is a brickmaker?"
"How do you know that, sir?" asks the woman, astonished.
"Why, I suppose so from the colour of the clay upon your bag and onyour dress. And I know brickmakers go about working at piecework indifferent places. And I am sorry to say I have known them cruel totheir wives too."
The woman hastily lifts up her eyes as if she would deny that herinjury is referable to such a cause. But feeling the hand upon herforehead, and seeing his busy and composed face, she quietly dropsthem again.
"Where is he now?" asks the surgeon.
"He got into trouble last night, sir; but he'll look for me at thelodging-house."
"He will get into worse trouble if he often misuses his large andheavy hand as he has misused it here. But you forgive him, brutal ashe is, and I say no more of him, except that I wish he deserved it.You have no young child?"
The woman shakes her head. "One as I calls mine, sir, but it'sLiz's."
"Your own is dead. I see! Poor little thing!"
By this time he has finished and is putting up his case. "I supposeyou have some settled home. Is it far from here?" he asks,good-humouredly making light of what he has done as she gets up andcurtsys.
"It's a good two or three and twenty mile from here, sir. At SaintAlbans. You know Saint Albans, sir? I thought you gave a start like,as if you did."
"Yes, I know something of it. And now I will ask you a question inreturn. Have you money for your lodging?"
"Yes, sir," she says, "really and truly." And she shows it. He tellsher, in acknowledgment of her many subdued thanks, that she is verywelcome, gives her good day, and walks away. Tom-all-Alone's is stillasleep, and nothing is astir.
Yes, something is! As he retraces his way to the point from which hedescried the woman at a distance sitting on the step, he sees aragged figure coming very cautiously along, crouching close to thesoiled walls--which the wretchedest figure might as well avoid--andfurtively thrusting a hand before it. It is the figure of a youthwhose face is hollow and whose eyes have an emaciated glare. He is sointent on getting along unseen that even the apparition of a strangerin whole garments does not tempt him to look back. He shades his facewith his ragged elbow as he passes on the other side of the way, andgoes shrinking and creeping on with his anxious hand before him andhis shapeless clothes hanging in shreds. Clothes made for whatpurpose, or of what material, it would be impossible to say. Theylook, in colour and in substance, like a bundle of rank leaves ofswampy growth that rotted long ago.
Allan Woodcourt pauses to look after him and note all this, with ashadowy belief that he has seen the boy before. He cannot recall howor where, but there is some association in his mind with such a form.He imagines that he must have seen it in some hospital or refuge,still, cannot make out why it comes with any special force on hisremembrance.
He is gradually emerging from Tom-all-Alone's in the morning light,thinking about it, when he hears running feet behind him, and lookinground, sees the boy scouring towards him at great speed, followed bythe woman.
"Stop him, stop him!" cries the woman, almost breathless. "Stop him,sir!"
He darts across the road into the boy's path, but the boy is quickerthan he, makes a curve, ducks, dives under his hands, comes uphalf-a-dozen yards beyond him, and scours away again. Still the womanfollows, crying, "Stop him, sir, pray stop him!" Allan, not knowingbut that he has just robbed her of her money, follows in chase andruns so hard that he runs the boy down a dozen times, but each timehe repeats the curve, the duck, the dive, and scours away again. Tostrike at him on any of these occasions would be to fell and disablehim, but the pursuer cannot resolve to do that, and so the grimlyridiculous pursuit continues. At last the fugitive, hard-pressed,takes to a narrow passage and a court which has no thoroughfare.Here, against a hoarding of decaying timber, he is brought to bay andtumbles down, lying gasping at his pursuer, who stands and gasps athim until the woman comes up.
"Oh, you, Jo!" cries the woman. "What? I have found you at last!"
"Jo," repeats Allan, looking at him with attention, "Jo! Stay. To besure! I recollect this lad some time ago being brought before thecoroner."
"Yes, I see you once afore at the inkwhich," whimpers Jo. "What ofthat? Can't you never let such an unfortnet as me alone? An't Iunfortnet enough for you yet? How unfortnet do you want me fur to be?I've been a-chivied and a-chivied, fust by one on you and nixt byanother on you, till I'm worritted to skins and bones. The inkwhichwarn't MY fault. I done nothink. He wos wery good to me, he wos; hewos the only one I knowed to speak to, as ever come across mycrossing. It ain't wery likely I should want him to be inkwhiched. Ionly wish I wos, myself. I don't know why I don't go and make a holein the water, I'm sure I don't."
He says it with such a pitiable air, and his grimy tears appear soreal, and he lies in the corner up against the hoarding so like agrowth of fungus or any unwholesome excrescence produced there inneglect and impurity, that Allan Woodcourt is softened towards him.He says to the woman, "Miserable creature, what has he done?"
To which she only replies, shaking her head at the prostrate figuremore amazedly than angrily, "Oh, you Jo, you Jo. I have found you atlast!"
"What has he done?" says Allan. "Has he robbed you?"
"No, sir, no. Robbed me? He did nothing but what was kind-hearted byme, and that's the wonder of it."
Allan looks from Jo to the woman, and from the woman to Jo, waitingfor one of them to unravel the riddle.
"But he was along with me, sir," says the woman. "Oh, you Jo! He wasalong with me, sir, down at Saint Albans, ill, and a young lady, Lordbless her for a good friend to me, took pity on him when I durstn't,and took him home--"
Allan shrinks back from him with a sudden horror.
"Yes, sir, yes. Took him home, and made him comfortable, and like athankless monster he ran away in the night and never has been seen orheard of since till I set eyes on him just now. And that young ladythat was such a pretty dear caught his illness, lost her beautifullooks, and wouldn't hardly be known for the same young lady now if itwasn't for her angel temper, and her pretty shape, and her sweetvoice. Do you know it? You ungrateful wretch, do you know that thisis all along of you and of her goodness to you?" demands the woman,beginning to rage at him as she recalls it and breaking intopassionate tears.
The boy, in rough sort stunned by what he hears, falls to smearinghis dirty forehead with his dirty palm, and to staring at the ground,and to shaking from head to foot until the crazy hoarding againstwhich he leans rattles.
Allan restrains the woman, merely by a quiet gesture, buteffectually.
"Richard told me--" He falters. "I mean, I have heard of this--don'tmind me for a moment, I will speak presently."
He turns away and stands for a while looking out at the coveredpassage. When he comes back, he has recovered his composure, exceptthat he contends against an avoidance of the boy, which is so veryremarkable that it absorbs the woman's attention.
"You hear what she says. But get up, get up!"
Jo, shaking and chattering, slowly rises and stands, after the mannerof his tribe in a difficulty, sideways against the hoarding, restingone of his high shoulders against it and covertly rubbing his righthand over his left and his left foot over his right.
"You hear what she says, and I know it's true. Have you been hereever since?"
"Wishermaydie if I seen Tom-all-Alone's till this blessed morning,"replies Jo hoarsely.
"Why have you come here now?"
Jo looks all round the confined court, looks at his questioner nohigher than the knees, and finally answers, "I don't know how to donothink, and I can't get nothink to do. I'm wery poor and ill, and Ithought I'd come back here when there warn't nobody about, and laydown and hide somewheres as I knows on till arter dark, and then goand beg a trifle of Mr. Snagsby. He wos allus willin fur to give mesomethink he wos, though Mrs. Snagsby she was allus a-chivying onme--like everybody everywheres."
"Where have you come from?"
Jo looks all round the court again, looks at his questioner's kneesagain, and concludes by laying his profile against the hoarding in asort of resignation.
"Did you hear me ask you where you have come from?"
"Tramp then," says Jo.
"Now tell me," proceeds Allan, making a strong effort to overcome hisrepugnance, going very near to him, and leaning over him with anexpression of confidence, "tell me how it came about that you leftthat house when the good young lady had been so unfortunate as topity you and take you home."
Jo suddenly comes out of his resignation and excitedly declares,addressing the woman, that he never known about the young lady, thathe never heern about it, that he never went fur to hurt her, that hewould sooner have hurt his own self, that he'd sooner have had hisunfortnet ed chopped off than ever gone a-nigh her, and that she woswery good to him, she wos. Conducting himself throughout as if in hispoor fashion he really meant it, and winding up with some verymiserable sobs.
Allan Woodcourt sees that this is not a sham. He constrains himselfto touch him. "Come, Jo. Tell me."
"No. I dustn't," says Jo, relapsing into the profile state. "Idustn't, or I would."
"But I must know," returns the other, "all the same. Come, Jo."
After two or three such adjurations, Jo lifts up his head again,looks round the court again, and says in a low voice, "Well, I'lltell you something. I was took away. There!"
"Took away? In the night?"
"Ah!" Very apprehensive of being overheard, Jo looks about him andeven glances up some ten feet at the top of the hoarding and throughthe cracks in it lest the object of his distrust should be lookingover or hidden on the other side.
"Who took you away?"
"I dustn't name him," says Jo. "I dustn't do it, sir.
"But I want, in the young lady's name, to know. You may trust me. Noone else shall hear."
"Ah, but I don't know," replies Jo, shaking his head fearfully, "ashe DON'T hear."
"Why, he is not in this place."
"Oh, ain't he though?" says Jo. "He's in all manner of places, all atwanst."
Allan looks at him in perplexity, but discovers some real meaning andgood faith at the bottom of this bewildering reply. He patientlyawaits an explicit answer; and Jo, more baffled by his patience thanby anything else, at last desperately whispers a name in his ear.
"Aye!" says Allan. "Why, what had you been doing?"
"Nothink, sir. Never done nothink to get myself into no trouble,'sept in not moving on and the inkwhich. But I'm a-moving on now. I'ma-moving on to the berryin ground--that's the move as I'm up to."
"No, no, we will try to prevent that. But what did he do with you?"
"Put me in a horsepittle," replied Jo, whispering, "till I wasdischarged, then giv me a little money--four half-bulls, wot you maycall half-crowns--and ses 'Hook it! Nobody wants you here,' he ses.'You hook it. You go and tramp,' he ses. 'You move on,' he ses.'Don't let me ever see you nowheres within forty mile of London, oryou'll repent it.' So I shall, if ever he doos see me, and he'll seeme if I'm above ground," concludes Jo, nervously repeating all hisformer precautions and investigations.
Allan considers a little, then remarks, turning to the woman butkeeping an encouraging eye on Jo, "He is not so ungrateful as yousupposed. He had a reason for going away, though it was aninsufficient one."
"Thankee, sir, thankee!" exclaims Jo. "There now! See how hard youwos upon me. But ony you tell the young lady wot the genlmn ses, andit's all right. For YOU wos wery good to me too, and I knows it."
"Now, Jo," says Allan, keeping his eye upon him, "come with me and Iwill find you a better place than this to lie down and hide in. If Itake one side of the way and you the other to avoid observation, youwill not run away, I know very well, if you make me a promise."
"I won't, not unless I wos to see HIM a-coming, sir."
"Very well. I take your word. Half the town is getting up by thistime, and the whole town will be broad awake in another hour. Comealong. Good day again, my good woman."
"Good day again, sir, and I thank you kindly many times again."
She has been sitting on her bag, deeply attentive, and now rises andtakes it up. Jo, repeating, "Ony you tell the young lady as I neverwent fur to hurt her and wot the genlmn ses!" nods and shambles andshivers, and smears and blinks, and half laughs and half cries, afarewell to her, and takes his creeping way along after AllanWoodcourt, close to the houses on the opposite side of the street. Inthis order, the two come up out of Tom-all-Alone's into the broadrays of the sunlight and the purer air.



CHAPTER XLVII
Jo's Will

As Allan Woodcourt and Jo proceed along the streets where the highchurch spires and the distances are so near and clear in the morninglight that the city itself seems renewed by rest, Allan revolves inhis mind how and where he shall bestow his companion. "It surely is astrange fact," he considers, "that in the heart of a civilized worldthis creature in human form should be more difficult to dispose ofthan an unowned dog." But it is none the less a fact because of itsstrangeness, and the difficulty remains.
At first he looks behind him often to assure himself that Jo is stillreally following. But look where he will, he still beholds him closeto the opposite houses, making his way with his wary hand from brickto brick and from door to door, and often, as he creeps along,glancing over at him watchfully. Soon satisfied that the last thingin his thoughts is to give him the slip, Allan goes on, consideringwith a less divided attention what he shall do.
A breakfast-stall at a street-corner suggests the first thing to bedone. He stops there, looks round, and beckons Jo. Jo crosses andcomes halting and shuffling up, slowly scooping the knuckles of hisright hand round and round in the hollowed palm of his left, kneadingdirt with a natural pestle and mortar. What is a dainty repast to Jois then set before him, and he begins to gulp the coffee and to gnawthe bread and butter, looking anxiously about him in all directionsas he eats and drinks, like a scared animal.
But he is so sick and miserable that even hunger has abandoned him."I thought I was amost a-starvin, sir," says Jo, soon putting downhis food, "but I don't know nothink--not even that. I don't care foreating wittles nor yet for drinking on 'em." And Jo stands shiveringand looking at the breakfast wonderingly.
Allan Woodcourt lays his hand upon his pulse and on his chest. "Drawbreath, Jo!" "It draws," says Jo, "as heavy as a cart." He might add,"And rattles like it," but he only mutters, "I'm a-moving on, sir."
Allan looks about for an apothecary's shop. There is none at hand,but a tavern does as well or better. He obtains a little measure ofwine and gives the lad a portion of it very carefully. He begins torevive almost as soon as it passes his lips. "We may repeat thatdose, Jo," observes Allan after watching him with his attentive face."So! Now we will take five minutes' rest, and then go on again."
Leaving the boy sitting on the bench of the breakfast-stall, with hisback against an iron railing, Allan Woodcourt paces up and down inthe early sunshine, casting an occasional look towards him withoutappearing to watch him. It requires no discernment to perceive thathe is warmed and refreshed. If a face so shaded can brighten, hisface brightens somewhat; and by little and little he eats the sliceof bread he had so hopelessly laid down. Observant of these signs ofimprovement, Allan engages him in conversation and elicits to his nosmall wonder the adventure of the lady in the veil, with all itsconsequences. Jo slowly munches as he slowly tells it. When he hasfinished his story and his bread, they go on again.
Intending to refer his difficulty in finding a temporary place ofrefuge for the boy to his old patient, zealous little Miss Flite,Allan leads the way to the court where he and Jo first foregathered.But all is changed at the rag and bottle shop; Miss Flite no longerlodges there; it is shut up; and a hard-featured female, muchobscured by dust, whose age is a problem, but who is indeed no otherthan the interesting Judy, is tart and spare in her replies. Thesesufficing, however, to inform the visitor that Miss Flite and herbirds are domiciled with a Mrs. Blinder, in Bell Yard, he repairs tothat neighbouring place, where Miss Flite (who rises early that shemay be punctual at the divan of justice held by her excellent friendthe Chancellor) comes running downstairs with tears of welcome andwith open arms.
"My dear physician!" cries Miss Flite. "My meritorious,distinguished, honourable officer!" She uses some odd expressions,but is as cordial and full of heart as sanity itself can be--more sothan it often is. Allan, very patient with her, waits until she hasno more raptures to express, then points out Jo, trembling in adoorway, and tells her how he comes there.
"Where can I lodge him hereabouts for the present? Now, you have afund of knowledge and good sense and can advise me."
Miss Flite, mighty proud of the compliment, sets herself to consider;but it is long before a bright thought occurs to her. Mrs. Blinder isentirely let, and she herself occupies poor Gridley's room."Gridley!" exclaims Miss Flite, clapping her hands after a twentiethrepetition of this remark. "Gridley! To be sure! Of course! My dearphysician! General George will help us out."
It is hopeless to ask for any information about General George, andwould be, though Miss Flite had not already run upstairs to put onher pinched bonnet and her poor little shawl and to arm herself withher reticule of documents. But as she informs her physician in herdisjointed manner on coming down in full array that General George,whom she often calls upon, knows her dear Fitz Jarndyce and takes agreat interest in all connected with her, Allan is induced to thinkthat they may be in the right way. So he tells Jo, for hisencouragement, that this walking about will soon be over now; andthey repair to the general's. Fortunately it is not far.
From the exterior of George's Shooting Gallery, and the long entry,and the bare perspective beyond it, Allan Woodcourt augurs well. Healso descries promise in the figure of Mr. George himself, stridingtowards them in his morning exercise with his pipe in his mouth, nostock on, and his muscular arms, developed by broadsword anddumbbell, weightily asserting themselves through his lightshirt-sleeves.
"Your servant, sir," says Mr. George with a military salute.Good-humouredly smiling all over his broad forehead up into his crisphair, he then defers to Miss Flite, as, with great stateliness, andat some length, she performs the courtly ceremony of presentation. Hewinds it up with another "Your servant, sir!" and another salute.
"Excuse me, sir. A sailor, I believe?" says Mr. George.
"I am proud to find I have the air of one," returns Allan; "but I amonly a sea-going doctor."
"Indeed, sir! I should have thought you was a regular blue-jacketmyself."
Allan hopes Mr. George will forgive his intrusion the more readily onthat account, and particularly that he will not lay aside his pipe,which, in his politeness, he has testified some intention of doing."You are very good, sir," returns the trooper. "As I know byexperience that it's not disagreeable to Miss Flite, and since it'sequally agreeable to yourself--" and finishes the sentence by puttingit between his lips again. Allan proceeds to tell him all he knowsabout Jo, unto which the trooper listens with a grave face.
"And that's the lad, sir, is it?" he inquires, looking along theentry to where Jo stands staring up at the great letters on thewhitewashed front, which have no meaning in his eyes.
"That's he," says Allan. "And, Mr. George, I am in this difficultyabout him. I am unwilling to place him in a hospital, even if I couldprocure him immediate admission, because I foresee that he would notstay there many hours if he could be so much as got there. The sameobjection applies to a workhouse, supposing I had the patience to beevaded and shirked, and handed about from post to pillar in trying toget him into one, which is a system that I don't take kindly to."
"No man does, sir," returns Mr. George.
"I am convinced that he would not remain in either place, because heis possessed by an extraordinary terror of this person who orderedhim to keep out of the way; in his ignorance, he believes this personto be everywhere, and cognizant of everything."
"I ask your pardon, sir," says Mr. George. "But you have notmentioned that party's name. Is it a secret, sir?"
"The boy makes it one. But his name is Bucket."
"Bucket the detective, sir?"
"The same man."
"The man is known to me, sir," returns the trooper after blowing outa cloud of smoke and squaring his chest, "and the boy is so farcorrect that he undoubtedly is a--rum customer." Mr. George smokeswith a profound meaning after this and surveys Miss Flite in silence.
"Now, I wish Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson at least to know thatthis Jo, who tells so strange a story, has reappeared, and to have itin their power to speak with him if they should desire to do so.Therefore I want to get him, for the present moment, into any poorlodging kept by decent people where he would be admitted. Decentpeople and Jo, Mr. George," says Allan, following the direction ofthe trooper's eyes along the entry, "have not been much acquainted,as you see. Hence the difficulty. Do you happen to know any one inthis neighbourhood who would receive him for a while on my paying forhim beforehand?"
As he puts the question, he becomes aware of a dirty-faced little manstanding at the trooper's elbow and looking up, with an oddly twistedfigure and countenance, into the trooper's face. After a few morepuffs at his pipe, the trooper looks down askant at the little man,and the little man winks up at the trooper.
"Well, sir," says Mr. George, "I can assure you that I wouldwillingly be knocked on the head at any time if it would be at allagreeable to Miss Summerson, and consequently I esteem it a privilegeto do that young lady any service, however small. We are naturally inthe vagabond way here, sir, both myself and Phil. You see what theplace is. You are welcome to a quiet corner of it for the boy if thesame would meet your views. No charge made, except for rations. Weare not in a flourishing state of circumstances here, sir. We areliable to be tumbled out neck and crop at a moment's notice. However,sir, such as the place is, and so long as it lasts, here it is atyour service."
With a comprehensive wave of his pipe, Mr. George places the wholebuilding at his visitor's disposal.
"I take it for granted, sir," he adds, "you being one of the medicalstaff, that there is no present infection about this unfortunatesubject?"
Allan is quite sure of it.
"Because, sir," says Mr. George, shaking his head sorrowfully, "wehave had enough of that."
His tone is no less sorrowfully echoed by his new acquaintance."Still I am bound to tell you," observes Allan after repeating hisformer assurance, "that the boy is deplorably low and reduced andthat he may be--I do not say that he is--too far gone to recover."
"Do you consider him in present danger, sir?" inquires the trooper.
"Yes, I fear so."
"Then, sir," returns the trooper in a decisive manner, "it appears tome--being naturally in the vagabond way myself--that the sooner hecomes out of the street, the better. You, Phil! Bring him in!"
Mr. Squod tacks out, all on one side, to execute the word of command;and the trooper, having smoked his pipe, lays it by. Jo is broughtin. He is not one of Mrs. Pardiggle's Tockahoopo Indians; he is notone of Mrs. Jellyby's lambs, being wholly unconnected withBorrioboola-Gha; he is not softened by distance and unfamiliarity; heis not a genuine foreign-grown savage; he is the ordinary home-madearticle. Dirty, ugly, disagreeable to all the senses, in body acommon creature of the common streets, only in soul a heathen. Homelyfilth begrimes him, homely parasites devour him, homely sores are inhim, homely rags are on him; native ignorance, the growth of Englishsoil and climate, sinks his immortal nature lower than the beaststhat perish. Stand forth, Jo, in uncompromising colours! From thesole of thy foot to the crown of thy head, there is nothinginteresting about thee.
He shuffles slowly into Mr. George's gallery and stands huddledtogether in a bundle, looking all about the floor. He seems to knowthat they have an inclination to shrink from him, partly for what heis and partly for what he has caused. He, too, shrinks from them. Heis not of the same order of things, not of the same place increation. He is of no order and no place, neither of the beasts norof humanity.
"Look here, Jo!" says Allan. "This is Mr. George."
Jo searches the floor for some time longer, then looks up for amoment, and then down again.
"He is a kind friend to you, for he is going to give you lodging roomhere."
Jo makes a scoop with one hand, which is supposed to be a bow. Aftera little more consideration and some backing and changing of the footon which he rests, he mutters that he is "wery thankful."
"You are quite safe here. All you have to do at present is to beobedient and to get strong. And mind you tell us the truth here,whatever you do, Jo."
"Wishermaydie if I don't, sir," says Jo, reverting to his favouritedeclaration. "I never done nothink yit, but wot you knows on, to getmyself into no trouble. I never was in no other trouble at all, sir,'sept not knowin' nothink and starwation."
"I believe it, now attend to Mr. George. I see he is going to speakto you."
"My intention merely was, sir," observes Mr. George, amazingly broadand upright, "to point out to him where he can lie down and get athorough good dose of sleep. Now, look here." As the trooper speaks,he conducts them to the other end of the gallery and opens one of thelittle cabins. "There you are, you see! Here is a mattress, and hereyou may rest, on good behaviour, as long as Mr., I ask your pardon,sir"--he refers apologetically to the card Allan has given him--"Mr.Woodcourt pleases. Don't you be alarmed if you hear shots; they'll beaimed at the target, and not you. Now, there's another thing I wouldrecommend, sir," says the trooper, turning to his visitor. "Phil,come here!"
Phil bears down upon them according to his usual tactics. "Here is aman, sir, who was found, when a baby, in the gutter. Consequently, itis to be expected that he takes a natural interest in this poorcreature. You do, don't you, Phil?"
"Certainly and surely I do, guv'ner," is Phil's reply.
"Now I was thinking, sir," says Mr. George in a martial sort ofconfidence, as if he were giving his opinion in a council of war at adrum-head, "that if this man was to take him to a bath and was to layout a few shillings in getting him one or two coarse articles--"
"Mr. George, my considerate friend," returns Allan, taking out hispurse, "it is the very favour I would have asked."
Phil Squod and Jo are sent out immediately on this work ofimprovement. Miss Flite, quite enraptured by her success, makes thebest of her way to court, having great fears that otherwise herfriend the Chancellor may be uneasy about her or may give thejudgment she has so long expected in her absence, and observing"which you know, my dear physician, and general, after so many years,would be too absurdly unfortunate!" Allan takes the opportunity ofgoing out to procure some restorative medicines, and obtaining themnear at hand, soon returns to find the trooper walking up and downthe gallery, and to fall into step and walk with him.
"I take it, sir," says Mr. George, "that you know Miss Summersonpretty well?"
Yes, it appears.
"Not related to her, sir?"
No, it appears.
"Excuse the apparent curiosity," says Mr. George. "It seemed to meprobable that you might take more than a common interest in this poorcreature because Miss Summerson had taken that unfortunate interestin him. 'Tis MY case, sir, I assure you."
"And mine, Mr. George."
The trooper looks sideways at Allan's sunburnt cheek and bright darkeye, rapidly measures his height and build, and seems to approve ofhim.
"Since you have been out, sir, I have been thinking that Iunquestionably know the rooms in Lincoln's Inn Fields, where Buckettook the lad, according to his account. Though he is not acquaintedwith the name, I can help you to it. It's Tulkinghorn. That's what itis."
Allan looks at him inquiringly, repeating the name.
"Tulkinghorn. That's the name, sir. I know the man, and know him tohave been in communication with Bucket before, respecting a deceasedperson who had given him offence. I know the man, sir. To my sorrow."
Allan naturally asks what kind of man he is.
"What kind of man! Do you mean to look at?"
"I think I know that much of him. I mean to deal with. Generally,what kind of man?"
"Why, then I'll tell you, sir," returns the trooper, stopping shortand folding his arms on his square chest so angrily that his facefires and flushes all over; "he is a confoundedly bad kind of man. Heis a slow-torturing kind of man. He is no more like flesh and bloodthan a rusty old carbine is. He is a kind of man--by George!--thathas caused me more restlessness, and more uneasiness, and moredissatisfaction with myself than all other men put together. That'sthe kind of man Mr. Tulkinghorn is!"
"I am sorry," says Allan, "to have touched so sore a place."
"Sore?" The trooper plants his legs wider apart, wets the palm of hisbroad right hand, and lays it on the imaginary moustache. "It's nofault of yours, sir; but you shall judge. He has got a power over me.He is the man I spoke of just now as being able to tumble me out ofthis place neck and crop. He keeps me on a constant see-saw. He won'thold off, and he won't come on. If I have a payment to make him, ortime to ask him for, or anything to go to him about, he don't see me,don't hear me--passes me on to Melchisedech's in Clifford's Inn,Melchisedech's in Clifford's Inn passes me back again to him--hekeeps me prowling and dangling about him as if I was made of the samestone as himself. Why, I spend half my life now, pretty well,loitering and dodging about his door. What does he care? Nothing.Just as much as the rusty old carbine I have compared him to. Hechafes and goads me till--Bah! Nonsense! I am forgetting myself. Mr.Woodcourt," the trooper resumes his march, "all I say is, he is anold man; but I am glad I shall never have the chance of setting spursto my horse and riding at him in a fair field. For if I had thatchance, in one of the humours he drives me into--he'd go down, sir!"
Mr. George has been so excited that he finds it necessary to wipe hisforehead on his shirt-sleeve. Even while he whistles his impetuosityaway with the national anthem, some involuntary shakings of his headand heavings of his chest still linger behind, not to mention anoccasional hasty adjustment with both hands of his open shirt-collar,as if it were scarcely open enough to prevent his being troubled by achoking sensation. In short, Allan Woodcourt has not much doubt aboutthe going down of Mr. Tulkinghorn on the field referred to.
Jo and his conductor presently return, and Jo is assisted to hismattress by the careful Phil, to whom, after due administration ofmedicine by his own hands, Allan confides all needful means andinstructions. The morning is by this time getting on apace. Herepairs to his lodgings to dress and breakfast, and then, withoutseeking rest, goes away to Mr. Jarndyce to communicate his discovery.
With him Mr. Jarndyce returns alone, confidentially telling him thatthere are reasons for keeping this matter very quiet indeed andshowing a serious interest in it. To Mr. Jarndyce, Jo repeats insubstance what he said in the morning, without any materialvariation. Only that cart of his is heavier to draw, and draws with ahollower sound.
"Let me lay here quiet and not be chivied no more," falters Jo, "andbe so kind any person as is a-passin nigh where I used fur to sleep,as jist to say to Mr. Sangsby that Jo, wot he known once, is a-movingon right forards with his duty, and I'll be wery thankful. I'd bemore thankful than I am aready if it wos any ways possible for anunfortnet to be it."
He makes so many of these references to the law-stationer in thecourse of a day or two that Allan, after conferring with Mr.Jarndyce, good-naturedly resolves to call in Cook's Court, therather, as the cart seems to be breaking down.
To Cook's Court, therefore, he repairs. Mr. Snagsby is behind hiscounter in his grey coat and sleeves, inspecting an indenture ofseveral skins which has just come in from the engrosser's, an immensedesert of law-hand and parchment, with here and there a resting-placeof a few large letters to break the awful monotony and save thetraveller from despair. Mr Snagsby puts up at one of these inky wellsand greets the stranger with his cough of general preparation forbusiness.
"You don't remember me, Mr. Snagsby?"
The stationer's heart begins to thump heavily, for his oldapprehensions have never abated. It is as much as he can do toanswer, "No, sir, I can't say I do. I should have considered--not toput too fine a point upon it--that I never saw you before, sir."
"Twice before," says Allan Woodcourt. "Once at a poor bedside, andonce--"
"It's come at last!" thinks the afflicted stationer, as recollectionbreaks upon him. "It's got to a head now and is going to burst!" Buthe has sufficient presence of mind to conduct his visitor into thelittle counting-house and to shut the door.
"Are you a married man, sir?"
"No, I am not."
"Would you make the attempt, though single," says Mr. Snagsby in amelancholy whisper, "to speak as low as you can? For my little womanis a-listening somewheres, or I'll forfeit the business and fivehundred pound!"
In deep dejection Mr. Snagsby sits down on his stool, with his backagainst his desk, protesting, "I never had a secret of my own, sir. Ican't charge my memory with ever having once attempted to deceive mylittle woman on my own account since she named the day. I wouldn'thave done it, sir. Not to put too fine a point upon it, I couldn'thave done it, I dursn't have done it. Whereas, and nevertheless, Ifind myself wrapped round with secrecy and mystery, till my life is aburden to me."
His visitor professes his regret to hear it and asks him does heremember Jo. Mr. Snagsby answers with a suppressed groan, oh, don'the!
"You couldn't name an individual human being--except myself--that mylittle woman is more set and determined against than Jo," says Mr.Snagsby.
Allan asks why.
"Why?" repeats Mr. Snagsby, in his desperation clutching at the clumpof hair at the back of his bald head. "How should I know why? But youare a single person, sir, and may you long be spared to ask a marriedperson such a question!"
With this beneficent wish, Mr. Snagsby coughs a cough of dismalresignation and submits himself to hear what the visitor has tocommunicate.
"There again!" says Mr. Snagsby, who, between the earnestness of hisfeelings and the suppressed tones of his voice is discoloured in theface. "At it again, in a new direction! A certain person charges me,in the solemnest way, not to talk of Jo to any one, even my littlewoman. Then comes another certain person, in the person of yourself,and charges me, in an equally solemn way, not to mention Jo to thatother certain person above all other persons. Why, this is a privateasylum! Why, not to put too fine a point upon it, this is Bedlam,sir!" says Mr. Snagsby.
But it is better than he expected after all, being no explosion ofthe mine below him or deepening of the pit into which he has fallen.And being tender-hearted and affected by the account he hears of Jo'scondition, he readily engages to "look round" as early in the eveningas he can manage it quietly. He looks round very quietly when theevening comes, but it may turn out that Mrs. Snagsby is as quiet amanager as he.
Jo is very glad to see his old friend and says, when they are leftalone, that he takes it uncommon kind as Mr. Sangsby should come sofar out of his way on accounts of sich as him. Mr. Snagsby, touchedby the spectacle before him, immediately lays upon the table half acrown, that magic balsam of his for all kinds of wounds.
"And how do you find yourself, my poor lad?" inquires the stationerwith his cough of sympathy.
"I am in luck, Mr. Sangsby, I am," returns Jo, "and don't want fornothink. I'm more cumfbler nor you can't think. Mr. Sangsby! I'm werysorry that I done it, but I didn't go fur to do it, sir."
The stationer softly lays down another half-crown and asks him whatit is that he is sorry for having done.
"Mr. Sangsby," says Jo, "I went and giv a illness to the lady as wosand yit as warn't the t'other lady, and none of 'em never saysnothink to me for having done it, on accounts of their being ser goodand my having been s'unfortnet. The lady come herself and see meyesday, and she ses, 'Ah, Jo!' she ses. 'We thought we'd lost you,Jo!' she ses. And she sits down a-smilin so quiet, and don't pass aword nor yit a look upon me for having done it, she don't, and Iturns agin the wall, I doos, Mr. Sangsby. And Mr. Jarnders, I see hima-forced to turn away his own self. And Mr. Woodcot, he come fur togiv me somethink fur to ease me, wot he's allus a-doin' on day andnight, and wen he come a-bending over me and a-speakin up so bold, Isee his tears a-fallin, Mr. Sangsby."
The softened stationer deposits another half-crown on the table.Nothing less than a repetition of that infallible remedy will relievehis feelings.
"Wot I was a-thinkin on, Mr. Sangsby," proceeds Jo, "wos, as you wosable to write wery large, p'raps?"
"Yes, Jo, please God," returns the stationer.
"Uncommon precious large, p'raps?" says Jo with eagerness.
"Yes, my poor boy."
Jo laughs with pleasure. "Wot I wos a-thinking on then, Mr. Sangsby,wos, that when I wos moved on as fur as ever I could go and couldn'tbe moved no furder, whether you might be so good p'raps as to writeout, wery large so that any one could see it anywheres, as that I woswery truly hearty sorry that I done it and that I never went fur todo it, and that though I didn't know nothink at all, I knowd as Mr.Woodcot once cried over it and wos allus grieved over it, and that Ihoped as he'd be able to forgive me in his mind. If the writin couldbe made to say it wery large, he might."
"It shall say it, Jo. Very large."
Jo laughs again. "Thankee, Mr. Sangsby. It's wery kind of you, sir,and it makes me more cumfbler nor I was afore."
The meek little stationer, with a broken and unfinished cough, slipsdown his fourth half-crown--he has never been so close to a caserequiring so many--and is fain to depart. And Jo and he, upon thislittle earth, shall meet no more. No more.
For the cart so hard to draw is near its journey's end and drags overstony ground. All round the clock it labours up the broken steps,shattered and worn. Not many times can the sun rise and behold itstill upon its weary road.
Phil Squod, with his smoky gunpowder visage, at once acts as nurseand works as armourer at his little table in a corner, often lookinground and saying with a nod of his green-baize cap and an encouragingelevation of his one eyebrow, "Hold up, my boy! Hold up!" There, too,is Mr. Jarndyce many a time, and Allan Woodcourt almost always, boththinking, much, how strangely fate has entangled this rough outcastin the web of very different lives. There, too, the trooper is afrequent visitor, filling the doorway with his athletic figure and,from his superfluity of life and strength, seeming to shed downtemporary vigour upon Jo, who never fails to speak more robustly inanswer to his cheerful words.
Jo is in a sleep or in a stupor to-day, and Allan Woodcourt, newlyarrived, stands by him, looking down upon his wasted form. After awhile he softly seats himself upon the bedside with his face towardshim--just as he sat in the law-writer's room--and touches his chestand heart. The cart had very nearly given up, but labours on a littlemore.
The trooper stands in the doorway, still and silent. Phil has stoppedin a low clinking noise, with his little hammer in his hand. Mr.Woodcourt looks round with that grave professional interest andattention on his face, and glancing significantly at the trooper,signs to Phil to carry his table out. When the little hammer is nextused, there will be a speck of rust upon it.
"Well, Jo! What is the matter? Don't be frightened."
"I thought," says Jo, who has started and is looking round, "Ithought I was in Tom-all-Alone's agin. Ain't there nobody here butyou, Mr. Woodcot?"
"Nobody."
"And I ain't took back to Tom-all-Alone's. Am I, sir?"
"No." Jo closes his eyes, muttering, "I'm wery thankful."
After watching him closely a little while, Allan puts his mouth verynear his ear and says to him in a low, distinct voice, "Jo! Did youever know a prayer?"
"Never knowd nothink, sir."
"Not so much as one short prayer?"
"No, sir. Nothink at all. Mr. Chadbands he wos a-prayin wunst at Mr.Sangsby's and I heerd him, but he sounded as if he wos a-speakin tohisself, and not to me. He prayed a lot, but I couldn't make outnothink on it. Different times there was other genlmen come downTom-all-Alone's a-prayin, but they all mostly sed as the t'other'wuns prayed wrong, and all mostly sounded to be a-talking totheirselves, or a-passing blame on the t'others, and not a-talkin tous. WE never knowd nothink. I never knowd what it wos all about."
It takes him a long time to say this, and few but an experienced andattentive listener could hear, or, hearing, understand him. After ashort relapse into sleep or stupor, he makes, of a sudden, a strongeffort to get out of bed.
"Stay, Jo! What now?"
"It's time for me to go to that there berryin ground, sir," hereturns with a wild look.
"Lie down, and tell me. What burying ground, Jo?"
"Where they laid him as wos wery good to me, wery good to me indeed,he wos. It's time fur me to go down to that there berryin ground,sir, and ask to be put along with him. I wants to go there and beberried. He used fur to say to me, 'I am as poor as you to-day, Jo,'he ses. I wants to tell him that I am as poor as him now and havecome there to be laid along with him."
"By and by, Jo. By and by."
"Ah! P'raps they wouldn't do it if I wos to go myself. But will youpromise to have me took there, sir, and laid along with him?"
"I will, indeed."
"Thankee, sir. Thankee, sir. They'll have to get the key of the gateafore they can take me in, for it's allus locked. And there's a stepthere, as I used for to clean with my broom. It's turned wery dark,sir. Is there any light a-comin?"
"It is coming fast, Jo."
Fast. The cart is shaken all to pieces, and the rugged road is verynear its end.
"Jo, my poor fellow!"
"I hear you, sir, in the dark, but I'm a-gropin--a-gropin--let mecatch hold of your hand."
"Jo, can you say what I say?"
"I'll say anythink as you say, sir, for I knows it's good."
"Our Father."
"Our Father! Yes, that's wery good, sir."
"Which art in heaven."
"Art in heaven--is the light a-comin, sir?"
"It is close at hand. Hallowed be thy name!"
"Hallowed be--thy--"
The light is come upon the dark benighted way. Dead!
Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. Dead, rightreverends and wrong reverends of every order. Dead, men and women,born with heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus aroundus every day.



CHAPTER XLVIII
Closing In

The place in Lincolnshire has shut its many eyes again, and the housein town is awake. In Lincolnshire the Dedlocks of the past doze intheir picture-frames, and the low wind murmurs through the longdrawing-room as if they were breathing pretty regularly. In town theDedlocks of the present rattle in their fire-eyed carriages throughthe darkness of the night, and the Dedlock Mercuries, with ashes (orhair-powder) on their heads, symptomatic of their great humility,loll away the drowsy mornings in the little windows of the hall. Thefashionable world--tremendous orb, nearly five miles round--is infull swing, and the solar system works respectfully at its appointeddistances.
Where the throng is thickest, where the lights are brightest, whereall the senses are ministered to with the greatest delicacy andrefinement, Lady Dedlock is. From the shining heights she has scaledand taken, she is never absent. Though the belief she of old reposedin herself as one able to reserve whatsoever she would underher mantle of pride is beaten down, though she has no assurancethat what she is to those around her she will remain another day,it is not in her nature when envious eyes are looking on toyield or to droop. They say of her that she has lately grownmore handsome and more haughty. The debilitated cousin says ofher that she's beauty nough--tsetup shopofwomen--but ratherlarming kind--remindingmanfact--inconvenient woman--who WILLgetoutofbedandbawthstahlishment--Shakespeare.
Mr. Tulkinghorn says nothing, looks nothing. Now, as heretofore, heis to be found in doorways of rooms, with his limp white cravatloosely twisted into its old-fashioned tie, receiving patronage fromthe peerage and making no sign. Of all men he is still the last whomight be supposed to have any influence upon my Lady. Of all womenshe is still the last who might be supposed to have any dread of him.
One thing has been much on her mind since their late interview in histurret-room at Chesney Wold. She is now decided, and prepared tothrow it off.
It is morning in the great world, afternoon according to the littlesun. The Mercuries, exhausted by looking out of window, are reposingin the hall and hang their heavy heads, the gorgeous creatures, likeoverblown sunflowers. Like them, too, they seem to run to a deal ofseed in their tags and trimmings. Sir Leicester, in the library, hasfallen asleep for the good of the country over the report of aParliamentary committee. My Lady sits in the room in which she gaveaudience to the young man of the name of Guppy. Rosa is with her andhas been writing for her and reading to her. Rosa is now at work uponembroidery or some such pretty thing, and as she bends her head overit, my Lady watches her in silence. Not for the first time to-day.
"Rosa."
The pretty village face looks brightly up. Then, seeing how seriousmy Lady is, looks puzzled and surprised.
"See to the door. Is it shut?"
Yes. She goes to it and returns, and looks yet more surprised.
"I am about to place confidence in you, child, for I know I may trustyour attachment, if not your judgment. In what I am going to do, Iwill not disguise myself to you at least. But I confide in you. Saynothing to any one of what passes between us."
The timid little beauty promises in all earnestness to betrustworthy.
"Do you know," Lady Dedlock asks her, signing to her to bring herchair nearer, "do you know, Rosa, that I am different to you fromwhat I am to any one?"
"Yes, my Lady. Much kinder. But then I often think I know you as youreally are."
"You often think you know me as I really am? Poor child, poor child!"
She says it with a kind of scorn--though not of Rosa--and sitsbrooding, looking dreamily at her.
"Do you think, Rosa, you are any relief or comfort to me? Do yousuppose your being young and natural, and fond of me and grateful tome, makes it any pleasure to me to have you near me?"
"I don't know, my Lady; I can scarcely hope so. But with all myheart, I wish it was so."
"It is so, little one."
The pretty face is checked in its flush of pleasure by the darkexpression on the handsome face before it. It looks timidly for anexplanation.
"And if I were to say to-day, 'Go! Leave me!' I should say what wouldgive me great pain and disquiet, child, and what would leave me verysolitary."
"My Lady! Have I offended you?"
"In nothing. Come here."
Rosa bends down on the footstool at my Lady's feet. My Lady, withthat motherly touch of the famous ironmaster night, lays her handupon her dark hair and gently keeps it there.
"I told you, Rosa, that I wished you to be happy and that I wouldmake you so if I could make anybody happy on this earth. I cannot.There are reasons now known to me, reasons in which you have no part,rendering it far better for you that you should not remain here. Youmust not remain here. I have determined that you shall not. I havewritten to the father of your lover, and he will be here to-day. Allthis I have done for your sake."
The weeping girl covers her hand with kisses and says what shall shedo, what shall she do, when they are separated! Her mistress kissesher on the cheek and makes no other answer.
"Now, be happy, child, under better circumstances. Be beloved andhappy!"
"Ah, my Lady, I have sometimes thought--forgive my being sofree--that YOU are not happy."
"I!"
"Will you be more so when you have sent me away? Pray, pray, thinkagain. Let me stay a little while!"
"I have said, my child, that what I do, I do for your sake, not myown. It is done. What I am towards you, Rosa, is what I am now--notwhat I shall be a little while hence. Remember this, and keep myconfidence. Do so much for my sake, and thus all ends between us!"
She detaches herself from her simple-hearted companion and leaves theroom. Late in the afternoon, when she next appears upon thestaircase, she is in her haughtiest and coldest state. As indifferentas if all passion, feeling, and interest had been worn out in theearlier ages of the world and had perished from its surface with itsother departed monsters.
Mercury has announced Mr. Rouncewell, which is the cause of herappearance. Mr. Rouncewell is not in the library, but she repairs tothe library. Sir Leicester is there, and she wishes to speak to himfirst.
"Sir Leicester, I am desirous--but you are engaged."
Oh, dear no! Not at all. Only Mr. Tulkinghorn.
Always at hand. Haunting every place. No relief or security from himfor a moment.
"I beg your pardon, Lady Dedlock. Will you allow me to retire?"
With a look that plainly says, "You know you have the power to remainif you will," she tells him it is not necessary and moves towards achair. Mr. Tulkinghorn brings it a little forward for her with hisclumsy bow and retires into a window opposite. Interposed between herand the fading light of day in the now quiet street, his shadow fallsupon her, and he darkens all before her. Even so does he darken herlife.
It is a dull street under the best conditions, where the two longrows of houses stare at each other with that severity thathalf-a-dozen of its greatest mansions seem to have been slowly staredinto stone rather than originally built in that material. It is astreet of such dismal grandeur, so determined not to condescend toliveliness, that the doors and windows hold a gloomy state of theirown in black paint and dust, and the echoing mews behind have a dryand massive appearance, as if they were reserved to stable the stonechargers of noble statues. Complicated garnish of iron-work entwinesitself over the flights of steps in this awful street, and from thesepetrified bowers, extinguishers for obsolete flambeaux gasp at theupstart gas. Here and there a weak little iron hoop, through whichbold boys aspire to throw their friends' caps (its only present use),retains its place among the rusty foliage, sacred to the memory ofdeparted oil. Nay, even oil itself, yet lingering at long intervalsin a little absurd glass pot, with a knob in the bottom like anoyster, blinks and sulks at newer lights every night, like its highand dry master in the House of Lords.
Therefore there is not much that Lady Dedlock, seated in her chair,could wish to see through the window in which Mr. Tulkinghorn stands.And yet--and yet--she sends a look in that direction as if it wereher heart's desire to have that figure moved out of the way.
Sir Leicester begs his Lady's pardon. She was about to say?
"Only that Mr. Rouncewell is here (he has called by my appointment)and that we had better make an end of the question of that girl. I amtired to death of the matter."
"What can I do--to--assist?" demands Sir Leicester in someconsiderable doubt.
"Let us see him here and have done with it. Will you tell them tosend him up?"
"Mr. Tulkinghorn, be so good as to ring. Thank you. Request," saysSir Leicester to Mercury, not immediately remembering the businessterm, "request the iron gentleman to walk this way."
Mercury departs in search of the iron gentleman, finds, and produceshim. Sir Leicester receives that ferruginous person graciously.
"I hope you are well, Mr. Rouncewell. Be seated. (My solicitor, Mr.Tulkinghorn.) My Lady was desirous, Mr. Rouncewell," Sir Leicesterskilfully transfers him with a solemn wave of his hand, "was desirousto speak with you. Hem!"
"I shall be very happy," returns the iron gentleman, "to give my bestattention to anything Lady Dedlock does me the honour to say."
As he turns towards her, he finds that the impression she makes uponhim is less agreeable than on the former occasion. A distantsupercilious air makes a cold atmosphere about her, and there isnothing in her bearing, as there was before, to encourage openness.
"Pray, sir," says Lady Dedlock listlessly, "may I be allowed toinquire whether anything has passed between you and your sonrespecting your son's fancy?"
It is almost too troublesome to her languid eyes to bestow a lookupon him as she asks this question.
"If my memory serves me, Lady Dedlock, I said, when I had thepleasure of seeing you before, that I should seriously advise my sonto conquer that--fancy." The ironmaster repeats her expression with alittle emphasis.
"And did you?"
"Oh! Of course I did."
Sir Leicester gives a nod, approving and confirmatory. Very proper.The iron gentleman, having said that he would do it, was bound to doit. No difference in this respect between the base metals and theprecious. Highly proper.
"And pray has he done so?"
"Really, Lady Dedlock, I cannot make you a definite reply. I fearnot. Probably not yet. In our condition of life, we sometimes couplean intention with our--our fancies which renders them not altogethereasy to throw off. I think it is rather our way to be in earnest."
Sir Leicester has a misgiving that there may be a hidden Wat Tylerishmeaning in this expression, and fumes a little. Mr. Rouncewell isperfectly good-humoured and polite, but within such limits, evidentlyadapts his tone to his reception.
"Because," proceeds my Lady, "I have been thinking of the subject,which is tiresome to me."
"I am very sorry, I am sure."
"And also of what Sir Leicester said upon it, in which I quiteconcur"--Sir Leicester flattered--"and if you cannot give us theassurance that this fancy is at an end, I have come to the conclusionthat the girl had better leave me."
"I can give no such assurance, Lady Dedlock. Nothing of the kind."
"Then she had better go."
"Excuse me, my Lady," Sir Leicester considerately interposes, "butperhaps this may be doing an injury to the young woman which she hasnot merited. Here is a young woman," says Sir Leicester,magnificently laying out the matter with his right hand like aservice of plate, "whose good fortune it is to have attracted thenotice and favour of an eminent lady and to live, under theprotection of that eminent lady, surrounded by the various advantageswhich such a position confers, and which are unquestionably verygreat--I believe unquestionably very great, sir--for a young woman inthat station of life. The question then arises, should that youngwoman be deprived of these many advantages and that good fortunesimply because she has"--Sir Leicester, with an apologetic butdignified inclination of his head towards the ironmaster, winds uphis sentence--"has attracted the notice of Mr Rouncewell's son? Now,has she deserved this punishment? Is this just towards her? Is thisour previous understanding?"
"I beg your pardon," interposes Mr. Rouncewell's son's father. "SirLeicester, will you allow me? I think I may shorten the subject. Praydismiss that from your consideration. If you remember anything sounimportant--which is not to be expected--you would recollect that myfirst thought in the affair was directly opposed to her remaininghere."
Dismiss the Dedlock patronage from consideration? Oh! Sir Leicesteris bound to believe a pair of ears that have been handed down to himthrough such a family, or he really might have mistrusted theirreport of the iron gentleman's observations.
"It is not necessary," observes my Lady in her coldest manner beforehe can do anything but breathe amazedly, "to enter into these matterson either side. The girl is a very good girl; I have nothing whateverto say against her, but she is so far insensible to her manyadvantages and her good fortune that she is in love--or supposes sheis, poor little fool--and unable to appreciate them."
Sir Leicester begs to observe that wholly alters the case. He mighthave been sure that my Lady had the best grounds and reasons insupport of her view. He entirely agrees with my Lady. The young womanhad better go.
"As Sir Leicester observed, Mr. Rouncewell, on the last occasion whenwe were fatigued by this business," Lady Dedlock languidly proceeds,"we cannot make conditions with you. Without conditions, and underpresent circumstances, the girl is quite misplaced here and hadbetter go. I have told her so. Would you wish to have her sent backto the village, or would you like to take her with you, or what wouldyou prefer?"
"Lady Dedlock, if I may speak plainly--"
"By all means."
"--I should prefer the course which will the soonest relieve you ofthe incumbrance and remove her from her present position."
"And to speak as plainly," she returns with the same studiedcarelessness, "so should I. Do I understand that you will take herwith you?"
The iron gentleman makes an iron bow.
"Sir Leicester, will you ring?" Mr. Tulkinghorn steps forward fromhis window and pulls the bell. "I had forgotten you. Thank you." Hemakes his usual bow and goes quietly back again. Mercury,swift-responsive, appears, receives instructions whom to produce,skims away, produces the aforesaid, and departs.
Rosa has been crying and is yet in distress. On her coming in, theironmaster leaves his chair, takes her arm in his, and remains withher near the door ready to depart.
"You are taken charge of, you see," says my Lady in her weary manner,"and are going away well protected. I have mentioned that you are avery good girl, and you have nothing to cry for."
"She seems after all," observes Mr. Tulkinghorn, loitering a littleforward with his hands behind him, "as if she were crying at goingaway."
"Why, she is not well-bred, you see," returns Mr. Rouncewell withsome quickness in his manner, as if he were glad to have the lawyerto retort upon, "and she is an inexperienced little thing and knowsno better. If she had remained here, sir, she would have improved, nodoubt."
"No doubt," is Mr. Tulkinghorn's composed reply.
Rosa sobs out that she is very sorry to leave my Lady, and that shewas happy at Chesney Wold, and has been happy with my Lady, and thatshe thanks my Lady over and over again. "Out, you silly little puss!"says the ironmaster, checking her in a low voice, though not angrily."Have a spirit, if you're fond of Watt!" My Lady merely waves her offwith indifference, saying, "There, there, child! You are a good girl.Go away!" Sir Leicester has magnificently disengaged himself from thesubject and retired into the sanctuary of his blue coat. Mr.Tulkinghorn, an indistinct form against the dark street now dottedwith lamps, looms in my Lady's view, bigger and blacker than before.
"Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock," says Mr. Rouncewell after a pauseof a few moments, "I beg to take my leave, with an apology for havingagain troubled you, though not of my own act, on this tiresomesubject. I can very well understand, I assure you, how tiresome sosmall a matter must have become to Lady Dedlock. If I am doubtful ofmy dealing with it, it is only because I did not at first quietlyexert my influence to take my young friend here away withouttroubling you at all. But it appeared to me--I dare say magnifyingthe importance of the thing--that it was respectful to explain to youhow the matter stood and candid to consult your wishes andconvenience. I hope you will excuse my want of acquaintance with thepolite world."
Sir Leicester considers himself evoked out of the sanctuary by theseremarks. "Mr. Rouncewell," he returns, "do not mention it.Justifications are unnecessary, I hope, on either side."
"I am glad to hear it, Sir Leicester; and if I may, by way of a lastword, revert to what I said before of my mother's long connexion withthe family and the worth it bespeaks on both sides, I would point outthis little instance here on my arm who shows herself so affectionateand faithful in parting and in whom my mother, I dare say, has donesomething to awaken such feelings--though of course Lady Dedlock, byher heartfelt interest and her genial condescension, has done muchmore."
If he mean this ironically, it may be truer than he thinks. He pointsit, however, by no deviation from his straightforward manner ofspeech, though in saying it he turns towards that part of the dimroom where my Lady sits. Sir Leicester stands to return his partingsalutation, Mr. Tulkinghorn again rings, Mercury takes anotherflight, and Mr. Rouncewell and Rosa leave the house.
Then lights are brought in, discovering Mr. Tulkinghorn stillstanding in his window with his hands behind him and my Lady stillsitting with his figure before her, closing up her view of the nightas well as of the day. She is very pale. Mr. Tulkinghorn, observingit as she rises to retire, thinks, "Well she may be! The power ofthis woman is astonishing. She has been acting a part the wholetime." But he can act a part too--his one unchanging character--andas he holds the door open for this woman, fifty pairs of eyes, eachfifty times sharper than Sir Leicester's pair, should find no flaw inhim.
Lady Dedlock dines alone in her own room to-day. Sir Leicester iswhipped in to the rescue of the Doodle Party and the discomfiture ofthe Coodle Faction. Lady Dedlock asks on sitting down to dinner,still deadly pale (and quite an illustration of the debilitatedcousin's text), whether he is gone out? Yes. Whether Mr. Tulkinghornis gone yet? No. Presently she asks again, is he gone YET? No. Whatis he doing? Mercury thinks he is writing letters in the library.Would my Lady wish to see him? Anything but that.
But he wishes to see my Lady. Within a few more minutes he isreported as sending his respects, and could my Lady please to receivehim for a word or two after her dinner? My Lady will receive him now.He comes now, apologizing for intruding, even by her permission,while she is at table. When they are alone, my Lady waves her hand todispense with such mockeries.
"What do you want, sir?"
"Why, Lady Dedlock," says the lawyer, taking a chair at a littledistance from her and slowly rubbing his rusty legs up and down, upand down, up and down, "I am rather surprised by the course you havetaken."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, decidedly. I was not prepared for it. I consider it a departurefrom our agreement and your promise. It puts us in a new position,Lady Dedlock. I feel myself under the necessity of saying that Idon't approve of it."
He stops in his rubbing and looks at her, with his hands on hisknees. Imperturbable and unchangeable as he is, there is still anindefinable freedom in his manner which is new and which does notescape this woman's observation.
"I do not quite understand you."
"Oh, yes you do, I think. I think you do. Come, come, Lady Dedlock,we must not fence and parry now. You know you like this girl."
"Well, sir?"
"And you know--and I know--that you have not sent her away for thereasons you have assigned, but for the purpose of separating her asmuch as possible from--excuse my mentioning it as a matter ofbusiness--any reproach and exposure that impend over yourself."
"Well, sir?"
"Well, Lady Dedlock," returns the lawyer, crossing his legs andnursing the uppermost knee. "I object to that. I consider that adangerous proceeding. I know it to be unnecessary and calculated toawaken speculation, doubt, rumour, I don't know what, in the house.Besides, it is a violation of our agreement. You were to be exactlywhat you were before. Whereas, it must be evident to yourself, as itis to me, that you have been this evening very different from whatyou were before. Why, bless my soul, Lady Dedlock, transparently so!"
"If, sir," she begins, "in my knowledge of my secret--" But heinterrupts her.
"Now, Lady Dedlock, this is a matter of business, and in a matter ofbusiness the ground cannot be kept too clear. It is no longer yoursecret. Excuse me. That is just the mistake. It is my secret, intrust for Sir Leicester and the family. If it were your secret, LadyDedlock, we should not be here holding this conversation."
"That is very true. If in my knowledge of THE secret I do what I canto spare an innocent girl (especially, remembering your own referenceto her when you told my story to the assembled guests at ChesneyWold) from the taint of my impending shame, I act upon a resolution Ihave taken. Nothing in the world, and no one in the world, couldshake it or could move me." This she says with great deliberation anddistinctness and with no more outward passion than himself. As forhim, he methodically discusses his matter of business as if she wereany insensible instrument used in business.
"Really? Then you see, Lady Dedlock," he returns, "you are not to betrusted. You have put the case in a perfectly plain way, andaccording to the literal fact; and that being the case, you are notto be trusted."
"Perhaps you may remember that I expressed some anxiety on this samepoint when we spoke at night at Chesney Wold?"
"Yes," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, coolly getting up and standing on thehearth. "Yes. I recollect, Lady Dedlock, that you certainly referredto the girl, but that was before we came to our arrangement, and boththe letter and the spirit of our arrangement altogether precluded anyaction on your part founded upon my discovery. There can be no doubtabout that. As to sparing the girl, of what importance or value isshe? Spare! Lady Dedlock, here is a family name compromised. Onemight have supposed that the course was straight on--over everything,neither to the right nor to the left, regardless of allconsiderations in the way, sparing nothing, treading everything underfoot."
She has been looking at the table. She lifts up her eyes and looks athim. There is a stern expression on her face and a part of her lowerlip is compressed under her teeth. "This woman understands me," Mr.Tulkinghorn thinks as she lets her glance fall again. "SHE cannot bespared. Why should she spare others?"
For a little while they are silent. Lady Dedlock has eaten no dinner,but has twice or thrice poured out water with a steady hand and drunkit. She rises from table, takes a lounging-chair, and reclines in it,shading her face. There is nothing in her manner to express weaknessor excite compassion. It is thoughtful, gloomy, concentrated. "Thiswoman," thinks Mr. Tulkinghorn, standing on the hearth, again a darkobject closing up her view, "is a study."
He studies her at his leisure, not speaking for a time. She toostudies something at her leisure. She is not the first to speak,appearing indeed so unlikely to be so, though he stood there untilmidnight, that even he is driven upon breaking silence.
"Lady Dedlock, the most disagreeable part of this business interviewremains, but it is business. Our agreement is broken. A lady of yoursense and strength of character will be prepared for my now declaringit void and taking my own course."
"I am quite prepared."
Mr. Tulkinghorn inclines his head. "That is all I have to trouble youwith, Lady Dedlock."
She stops him as he is moving out of the room by asking, "This is thenotice I was to receive? I wish not to misapprehend you."
"Not exactly the notice you were to receive, Lady Dedlock, becausethe contemplated notice supposed the agreement to have been observed.But virtually the same, virtually the same. The difference is merelyin a lawyer's mind."
"You intend to give me no other notice?"
"You are right. No."
"Do you contemplate undeceiving Sir Leicester to-night?"
"A home question!" says Mr. Tulkinghorn with a slight smile andcautiously shaking his head at the shaded face. "No, not to-night."
"To-morrow?"
"All things considered, I had better decline answering that question,Lady Dedlock. If I were to say I don't know when, exactly, you wouldnot believe me, and it would answer no purpose. It may be to-morrow.I would rather say no more. You are prepared, and I hold out noexpectations which circumstances might fail to justify. I wish yougood evening."
She removes her hand, turns her pale face towards him as he walkssilently to the door, and stops him once again as he is about to openit.
"Do you intend to remain in the house any time? I heard you werewriting in the library. Are you going to return there?"
"Only for my hat. I am going home."
She bows her eyes rather than her head, the movement is so slight andcurious, and he withdraws. Clear of the room he looks at his watchbut is inclined to doubt it by a minute or thereabouts. There is asplendid clock upon the staircase, famous, as splendid clocks notoften are, for its accuracy. "And what do YOU say," Mr. Tulkinghorninquires, referring to it. "What do you say?"
If it said now, "Don't go home!" What a famous clock, hereafter, ifit said to-night of all the nights that it has counted off, to thisold man of all the young and old men who have ever stood before it,"Don't go home!" With its sharp clear bell it strikes three quartersafter seven and ticks on again. "Why, you are worse than I thoughtyou," says Mr. Tulkinghorn, muttering reproof to his watch. "Twominutes wrong? At this rate you won't last my time." What a watch toreturn good for evil if it ticked in answer, "Don't go home!"
He passes out into the streets and walks on, with his hands behindhim, under the shadow of the lofty houses, many of whose mysteries,difficulties, mortgages, delicate affairs of all kinds, are treasuredup within his old black satin waistcoat. He is in the confidence ofthe very bricks and mortar. The high chimney-stacks telegraph familysecrets to him. Yet there is not a voice in a mile of them towhisper, "Don't go home!"
Through the stir and motion of the commoner streets; through the roarand jar of many vehicles, many feet, many voices; with the blazingshop-lights lighting him on, the west wind blowing him on, and thecrowd pressing him on, he is pitilessly urged upon his way, andnothing meets him murmuring, "Don't go home!" Arrived at last in hisdull room to light his candles, and look round and up, and see theRoman pointing from the ceiling, there is no new significance in theRoman's hand to-night or in the flutter of the attendant groups togive him the late warning, "Don't come here!"
It is a moonlight night, but the moon, being past the full, is onlynow rising over the great wilderness of London. The stars are shiningas they shone above the turret-leads at Chesney Wold. This woman, ashe has of late been so accustomed to call her, looks out upon them.Her soul is turbulent within her; she is sick at heart and restless.The large rooms are too cramped and close. She cannot endure theirrestraint and will walk alone in a neighbouring garden.
Too capricious and imperious in all she does to be the cause of muchsurprise in those about her as to anything she does, this woman,loosely muffled, goes out into the moonlight. Mercury attends withthe key. Having opened the garden-gate, he delivers the key into hisLady's hands at her request and is bidden to go back. She will walkthere some time to ease her aching head. She may be an hour, she maybe more. She needs no further escort. The gate shuts upon its springwith a clash, and he leaves her passing on into the dark shade ofsome trees.
A fine night, and a bright large moon, and multitudes of stars. Mr.Tulkinghorn, in repairing to his cellar and in opening and shuttingthose resounding doors, has to cross a little prison-like yard. Helooks up casually, thinking what a fine night, what a bright largemoon, what multitudes of stars! A quiet night, too.
A very quiet night. When the moon shines very brilliantly, a solitudeand stillness seem to proceed from her that influence even crowdedplaces full of life. Not only is it a still night on dusty high roadsand on hill-summits, whence a wide expanse of country may be seen inrepose, quieter and quieter as it spreads away into a fringe of treesagainst the sky with the grey ghost of a bloom upon them; not only isit a still night in gardens and in woods, and on the river where thewater-meadows are fresh and green, and the stream sparkles on amongpleasant islands, murmuring weirs, and whispering rushes; not onlydoes the stillness attend it as it flows where houses cluster thick,where many bridges are reflected in it, where wharves and shippingmake it black and awful, where it winds from these disfigurementsthrough marshes whose grim beacons stand like skeletons washedashore, where it expands through the bolder region of rising grounds,rich in cornfield wind-mill and steeple, and where it mingles withthe ever-heaving sea; not only is it a still night on the deep, andon the shore where the watcher stands to see the ship with her spreadwings cross the path of light that appears to be presented to onlyhim; but even on this stranger's wilderness of London there is somerest. Its steeples and towers and its one great dome grow moreethereal; its smoky house-tops lose their grossness in the paleeffulgence; the noises that arise from the streets are fewer and aresoftened, and the footsteps on the pavements pass more tranquillyaway. In these fields of Mr. Tulkinghorn's inhabiting, where theshepherds play on Chancery pipes that have no stop, and keep theirsheep in the fold by hook and by crook until they have shorn themexceeding close, every noise is merged, this moonlight night, into adistant ringing hum, as if the city were a vast glass, vibrating.
What's that? Who fired a gun or pistol? Where was it?
The few foot-passengers start, stop, and stare about them. Somewindows and doors are opened, and people come out to look. It was aloud report and echoed and rattled heavily. It shook one house, or soa man says who was passing. It has aroused all the dogs in theneighbourhood, who bark vehemently. Terrified cats scamper across theroad. While the dogs are yet barking and howling--there is one doghowling like a demon--the church-clocks, as if they were startledtoo, begin to strike. The hum from the streets, likewise, seems toswell into a shout. But it is soon over. Before the last clock beginsto strike ten, there is a lull. When it has ceased, the fine night,the bright large moon, and multitudes of stars, are left at peaceagain.
Has Mr. Tulkinghorn been disturbed? His windows are dark and quiet,and his door is shut. It must be something unusual indeed to bringhim out of his shell. Nothing is heard of him, nothing is seen ofhim. What power of cannon might it take to shake that rusty old manout of his immovable composure?
For many years the persistent Roman has been pointing, with noparticular meaning, from that ceiling. It is not likely that he hasany new meaning in him to-night. Once pointing, always pointing--likeany Roman, or even Briton, with a single idea. There he is, no doubt,in his impossible attitude, pointing, unavailingly, all night long.Moonlight, darkness, dawn, sunrise, day. There he is still, eagerlypointing, and no one minds him.
But a little after the coming of the day come people to clean therooms. And either the Roman has some new meaning in him, notexpressed before, or the foremost of them goes wild, for looking upat his outstretched hand and looking down at what is below it, thatperson shrieks and flies. The others, looking in as the first onelooked, shriek and fly too, and there is an alarm in the street.
What does it mean? No light is admitted into the darkened chamber,and people unaccustomed to it enter, and treading softly but heavily,carry a weight into the bedroom and lay it down. There is whisperingand wondering all day, strict search of every corner, careful tracingof steps, and careful noting of the disposition of every article offurniture. All eyes look up at the Roman, and all voices murmur, "Ifhe could only tell what he saw!"
He is pointing at a table with a bottle (nearly full of wine) and aglass upon it and two candles that were blown out suddenly soon afterbeing lighted. He is pointing at an empty chair and at a stain uponthe ground before it that might be almost covered with a hand. Theseobjects lie directly within his range. An excited imagination mightsuppose that there was something in them so terrific as to drive therest of the composition, not only the attendant big-legged boys, butthe clouds and flowers and pillars too--in short, the very body andsoul of Allegory, and all the brains it has--stark mad. It happenssurely that every one who comes into the darkened room and looks atthese things looks up at the Roman and that he is invested in alleyes with mystery and awe, as if he were a paralysed dumb witness.
So it shall happen surely, through many years to come, that ghostlystories shall be told of the stain upon the floor, so easy to becovered, so hard to be got out, and that the Roman, pointing from theceiling shall point, so long as dust and damp and spiders spare him,with far greater significance than he ever had in Mr. Tulkinghorn'stime, and with a deadly meaning. For Mr. Tulkinghorn's time is overfor evermore, and the Roman pointed at the murderous hand upliftedagainst his life, and pointed helplessly at him, from night tomorning, lying face downward on the floor, shot through the heart.



CHAPTER XLIX
Dutiful Friendship

A great annual occasion has come round in the establishment of Mr.Matthew Bagnet, otherwise Lignum Vitae, ex-artilleryman and presentbassoon-player. An occasion of feasting and festival. The celebrationof a birthday in the family.
It is not Mr. Bagnet's birthday. Mr. Bagnet merely distinguishes thatepoch in the musical instrument business by kissing the children withan extra smack before breakfast, smoking an additional pipe afterdinner, and wondering towards evening what his poor old mother isthinking about it--a subject of infinite speculation, and rendered soby his mother having departed this life twenty years. Some men rarelyrevert to their father, but seem, in the bank-books of theirremembrance, to have transferred all the stock of filial affectioninto their mother's name. Mr. Bagnet is one of these. Perhaps hisexalted appreciation of the merits of the old girl causes him usuallyto make the noun-substantive "goodness" of the feminine gender.
It is not the birthday of one of the three children. Those occasionsare kept with some marks of distinction, but they rarely overleap thebounds of happy returns and a pudding. On young Woolwich's lastbirthday, Mr. Bagnet certainly did, after observing on his growth andgeneral advancement, proceed, in a moment of profound reflection onthe changes wrought by time, to examine him in the catechism,accomplishing with extreme accuracy the questions number one and two,"What is your name?" and "Who gave you that name?" but there failingin the exact precision of his memory and substituting for numberthree the question "And how do you like that name?" which hepropounded with a sense of its importance, in itself so edifying andimproving as to give it quite an orthodox air. This, however, was aspeciality on that particular birthday, and not a general solemnity.
It is the old girl's birthday, and that is the greatest holiday andreddest-letter day in Mr. Bagnet's calendar. The auspicious event isalways commemorated according to certain forms settled and prescribedby Mr. Bagnet some years since. Mr. Bagnet, being deeply convincedthat to have a pair of fowls for dinner is to attain the highestpitch of imperial luxury, invariably goes forth himself very early inthe morning of this day to buy a pair; he is, as invariably, taken inby the vendor and installed in the possession of the oldestinhabitants of any coop in Europe. Returning with these triumphs oftoughness tied up in a clean blue and white cotton handkerchief(essential to the arrangements), he in a casual manner invites Mrs.Bagnet to declare at breakfast what she would like for dinner. Mrs.Bagnet, by a coincidence never known to fail, replying fowls, Mr.Bagnet instantly produces his bundle from a place of concealmentamidst general amazement and rejoicing. He further requires that theold girl shall do nothing all day long but sit in her very best gownand be served by himself and the young people. As he is notillustrious for his cookery, this may be supposed to be a matter ofstate rather than enjoyment on the old girl's part, but she keeps herstate with all imaginable cheerfulness.
On this present birthday, Mr. Bagnet has accomplished the usualpreliminaries. He has bought two specimens of poultry, which, ifthere be any truth in adages, were certainly not caught with chaff,to be prepared for the spit; he has amazed and rejoiced the family bytheir unlooked-for production; he is himself directing the roastingof the poultry; and Mrs. Bagnet, with her wholesome brown fingersitching to prevent what she sees going wrong, sits in her gown ofceremony, an honoured guest.
Quebec and Malta lay the cloth for dinner, while Woolwich, serving,as beseems him, under his father, keeps the fowls revolving. To theseyoung scullions Mrs. Bagnet occasionally imparts a wink, or a shakeof the head, or a crooked face, as they made mistakes.
"At half after one." Says Mr. Bagnet. "To the minute. They'll bedone."
Mrs. Bagnet, with anguish, beholds one of them at a standstill beforethe fire and beginning to burn.
"You shall have a dinner, old girl," says Mr. Bagnet. "Fit for aqueen."
Mrs. Bagnet shows her white teeth cheerfully, but to the perceptionof her son, betrays so much uneasiness of spirit that he is impelledby the dictates of affection to ask her, with his eyes, what is thematter, thus standing, with his eyes wide open, more oblivious of thefowls than before, and not affording the least hope of a return toconsciousness. Fortunately his elder sister perceives the cause ofthe agitation in Mrs. Bagnet's breast and with an admonitory pokerecalls him. The stopped fowls going round again, Mrs. Bagnet closesher eyes in the intensity of her relief.
"George will look us up," says Mr. Bagnet. "At half after four. Tothe moment. How many years, old girl. Has George looked us up. Thisafternoon?"
"Ah, Lignum, Lignum, as many as make an old woman of a young one, Ibegin to think. Just about that, and no less," returns Mrs. Bagnet,laughing and shaking her head.
"Old girl," says Mr. Bagnet, "never mind. You'd be as young as everyou was. If you wasn't younger. Which you are. As everybody knows."
Quebec and Malta here exclaim, with clapping of hands, that Bluffy issure to bring mother something, and begin to speculate on what itwill be.
"Do you know, Lignum," says Mrs. Bagnet, casting a glance on thetable-cloth, and winking "salt!" at Malta with her right eye, andshaking the pepper away from Quebec with her head, "I begin to thinkGeorge is in the roving way again.
"George," returns Mr. Bagnet, "will never desert. And leave his oldcomrade. In the lurch. Don't be afraid of it."
"No, Lignum. No. I don't say he will. I don't think he will. But ifhe could get over this money trouble of his, I believe he would beoff."
Mr. Bagnet asks why.
"Well," returns his wife, considering, "George seems to me to begetting not a little impatient and restless. I don't say but whathe's as free as ever. Of course he must be free or he wouldn't beGeorge, but he smarts and seems put out."
"He's extra-drilled," says Mr. Bagnet. "By a lawyer. Who would putthe devil out."
"There's something in that," his wife assents; "but so it is,Lignum."
Further conversation is prevented, for the time, by the necessityunder which Mr. Bagnet finds himself of directing the whole force ofhis mind to the dinner, which is a little endangered by the dryhumour of the fowls in not yielding any gravy, and also by the madegravy acquiring no flavour and turning out of a flaxen complexion.With a similar perverseness, the potatoes crumble off forks in theprocess of peeling, upheaving from their centres in every direction,as if they were subject to earthquakes. The legs of the fowls, too,are longer than could be desired, and extremely scaly. Overcomingthese disadvantages to the best of his ability, Mr. Bagnet at lastdishes and they sit down at table, Mrs. Bagnet occupying the guest'splace at his right hand.
It is well for the old girl that she has but one birthday in a year,for two such indulgences in poultry might be injurious. Every kind offiner tendon and ligament that is in the nature of poultry to possessis developed in these specimens in the singular form ofguitar-strings. Their limbs appear to have struck roots into theirbreasts and bodies, as aged trees strike roots into the earth. Theirlegs are so hard as to encourage the idea that they must have devotedthe greater part of their long and arduous lives to pedestrianexercises and the walking of matches. But Mr. Bagnet, unconscious ofthese little defects, sets his heart on Mrs. Bagnet eating a mostsevere quantity of the delicacies before her; and as that good oldgirl would not cause him a moment's disappointment on any day, leastof all on such a day, for any consideration, she imperils herdigestion fearfully. How young Woolwich cleans the drum-stickswithout being of ostrich descent, his anxious mother is at a loss tounderstand.
The old girl has another trial to undergo after the conclusion of therepast in sitting in state to see the room cleared, the hearth swept,and the dinner-service washed up and polished in the backyard. Thegreat delight and energy with which the two young ladies applythemselves to these duties, turning up their skirts in imitation oftheir mother and skating in and out on little scaffolds of pattens,inspire the highest hopes for the future, but some anxiety for thepresent. The same causes lead to confusion of tongues, a clatteringof crockery, a rattling of tin mugs, a whisking of brooms, and anexpenditure of water, all in excess, while the saturation of theyoung ladies themselves is almost too moving a spectacle for Mrs.Bagnet to look upon with the calmness proper to her position. At lastthe various cleansing processes are triumphantly completed; Quebecand Malta appear in fresh attire, smiling and dry; pipes, tobacco,and something to drink are placed upon the table; and the old girlenjoys the first peace of mind she ever knows on the day of thisdelightful entertainment.
When Mr. Bagnet takes his usual seat, the hands of the clock are verynear to half-past four; as they mark it accurately, Mr. Bagnetannounces, "George! Military time."
It is George, and he has hearty congratulations for the old girl(whom he kisses on the great occasion), and for the children, and forMr. Bagnet. "Happy returns to all!" says Mr. George.
"But, George, old man!" cries Mrs. Bagnet, looking at him curiously."What's come to you?"
"Come to me?"
"Ah! You are so white, George--for you--and look so shocked. Nowdon't he, Lignum?"
"George," says Mr. Bagnet, "tell the old girl. What's the matter."
"I didn't know I looked white," says the trooper, passing his handover his brow, "and I didn't know I looked shocked, and I'm sorry Ido. But the truth is, that boy who was taken in at my place diedyesterday afternoon, and it has rather knocked me over."
"Poor creetur!" says Mrs. Bagnet with a mother's pity. "Is he gone?Dear, dear!"
"I didn't mean to say anything about it, for it's not birthday talk,but you have got it out of me, you see, before I sit down. I shouldhave roused up in a minute," says the trooper, making himself speakmore gaily, "but you're so quick, Mrs. Bagnet."
"You're right. The old girl," says Mr. Bagnet. "Is as quick. Aspowder."
"And what's more, she's the subject of the day, and we'll stick toher," cries Mr. George. "See here, I have brought a little broochalong with me. It's a poor thing, you know, but it's a keepsake.That's all the good it is, Mrs. Bagnet."
Mr. George produces his present, which is greeted with admiringleapings and clappings by the young family, and with a species ofreverential admiration by Mr. Bagnet. "Old girl," says Mr. Bagnet."Tell him my opinion of it."
"Why, it's a wonder, George!" Mrs. Bagnet exclaims. "It's thebeautifullest thing that ever was seen!"
"Good!" says Mr. Bagnet. "My opinion."
"It's so pretty, George," cries Mrs. Bagnet, turning it on all sidesand holding it out at arm's length, "that it seems too choice forme."
"Bad!" says Mr. Bagnet. "Not my opinion."
"But whatever it is, a hundred thousand thanks, old fellow," saysMrs. Bagnet, her eyes sparkling with pleasure and her hand stretchedout to him; "and though I have been a crossgrained soldier's wife toyou sometimes, George, we are as strong friends, I am sure, inreality, as ever can be. Now you shall fasten it on yourself, forgood luck, if you will, George."
The children close up to see it done, and Mr. Bagnet looks over youngWoolwich's head to see it done with an interest so maturely wooden,yet pleasantly childish, that Mrs. Bagnet cannot help laughing in herairy way and saying, "Oh, Lignum, Lignum, what a precious old chapyou are!" But the trooper fails to fasten the brooch. His handshakes, he is nervous, and it falls off. "Would any one believethis?" says he, catching it as it drops and looking round. "I am soout of sorts that I bungle at an easy job like this!"
Mrs. Bagnet concludes that for such a case there is no remedy like apipe, and fastening the brooch herself in a twinkling, causes thetrooper to be inducted into his usual snug place and the pipes to begot into action. "If that don't bring you round, George," says she,"just throw your eye across here at your present now and then, andthe two together MUST do it."
"You ought to do it of yourself," George answers; "I know that verywell, Mrs. Bagnet. I'll tell you how, one way and another, the blueshave got to be too many for me. Here was this poor lad. 'Twas dullwork to see him dying as he did, and not be able to help him."
"What do you mean, George? You did help him. You took him under yourroof."
"I helped him so far, but that's little. I mean, Mrs. Bagnet, therehe was, dying without ever having been taught much more than to knowhis right hand from his left. And he was too far gone to be helpedout of that."
"Ah, poor creetur!" says Mrs. Bagnet.
"Then," says the trooper, not yet lighting his pipe, and passing hisheavy hand over his hair, "that brought up Gridley in a man's mind.His was a bad case too, in a different way. Then the two got mixed upin a man's mind with a flinty old rascal who had to do with both. Andto think of that rusty carbine, stock and barrel, standing up on endin his corner, hard, indifferent, taking everything so evenly--itmade flesh and blood tingle, I do assure you."
"My advice to you," returns Mrs. Bagnet, "is to light your pipe andtingle that way. It's wholesomer and comfortabler, and better for thehealth altogether."
"You're right," says the trooper, "and I'll do it."
So he does it, though still with an indignant gravity that impressesthe young Bagnets, and even causes Mr. Bagnet to defer the ceremonyof drinking Mrs. Bagnet's health, always given by himself on theseoccasions in a speech of exemplary terseness. But the young ladieshaving composed what Mr. Bagnet is in the habit of calling "themixtur," and George's pipe being now in a glow, Mr. Bagnet considersit his duty to proceed to the toast of the evening. He addresses theassembled company in the following terms.
"George. Woolwich. Quebec. Malta. This is her birthday. Take a day'smarch. And you won't find such another. Here's towards her!"
The toast having been drunk with enthusiasm, Mrs. Bagnet returnsthanks in a neat address of corresponding brevity. This modelcomposition is limited to the three words "And wishing yours!" whichthe old girl follows up with a nod at everybody in succession and awell-regulated swig of the mixture. This she again follows up, on thepresent occasion, by the wholly unexpected exclamation, "Here's aman!"
Here IS a man, much to the astonishment of the little company,looking in at the parlour-door. He is a sharp-eyed man--a quick keenman--and he takes in everybody's look at him, all at once,individually and collectively, in a manner that stamps him aremarkable man.
"George," says the man, nodding, "how do you find yourself?"
"Why, it's Bucket!" cries Mr. George.
"Yes," says the man, coming in and closing the door. "I was goingdown the street here when I happened to stop and look in at themusical instruments in the shop-window--a friend of mine is in wantof a second-hand wiolinceller of a good tone--and I saw a partyenjoying themselves, and I thought it was you in the corner; Ithought I couldn't be mistaken. How goes the world with you, George,at the present moment? Pretty smooth? And with you, ma'am? And withyou, governor? And Lord," says Mr. Bucket, opening his arms, "here'schildren too! You may do anything with me if you only show mechildren. Give us a kiss, my pets. No occasion to inquire who YOURfather and mother is. Never saw such a likeness in my life!"
Mr. Bucket, not unwelcome, has sat himself down next to Mr. Georgeand taken Quebec and Malta on his knees. "You pretty dears," says Mr.Bucket, "give us another kiss; it's the only thing I'm greedy in.Lord bless you, how healthy you look! And what may be the ages ofthese two, ma'am? I should put 'em down at the figures of about eightand ten."
"You're very near, sir," says Mrs. Bagnet.
"I generally am near," returns Mr. Bucket, "being so fond ofchildren. A friend of mine has had nineteen of 'em, ma'am, all by onemother, and she's still as fresh and rosy as the morning. Not so muchso as yourself, but, upon my soul, she comes near you! And what doyou call these, my darling?" pursues Mr. Bucket, pinching Malta'scheeks. "These are peaches, these are. Bless your heart! And what doyou think about father? Do you think father could recommend asecond-hand wiolinceller of a good tone for Mr. Bucket's friend, mydear? My name's Bucket. Ain't that a funny name?"
These blandishments have entirely won the family heart. Mrs. Bagnetforgets the day to the extent of filling a pipe and a glass for Mr.Bucket and waiting upon him hospitably. She would be glad to receiveso pleasant a character under any circumstances, but she tells himthat as a friend of George's she is particularly glad to see him thisevening, for George has not been in his usual spirits.
"Not in his usual spirits?" exclaims Mr. Bucket. "Why, I never heardof such a thing! What's the matter, George? You don't intend to tellme you've been out of spirits. What should you be out of spirits for?You haven't got anything on your mind, you know."
"Nothing particular," returns the trooper.
"I should think not," rejoins Mr. Bucket. "What could you have onyour mind, you know! And have these pets got anything on THEIR minds,eh? Not they, but they'll be upon the minds of some of the youngfellows, some of these days, and make 'em precious low-spirited. Iain't much of a prophet, but I can tell you that, ma'am."
Mrs. Bagnet, quite charmed, hopes Mr. Bucket has a family of his own.
"There, ma'am!" says Mr. Bucket. "Would you believe it? No, Ihaven't. My wife and a lodger constitute my family. Mrs. Bucket is asfond of children as myself and as wishful to have 'em, but no. So itis. Worldly goods are divided unequally, and man must not repine.What a very nice backyard, ma'am! Any way out of that yard, now?"
There is no way out of that yard.
"Ain't there really?" says Mr. Bucket. "I should have thought theremight have been. Well, I don't know as I ever saw a backyard thattook my fancy more. Would you allow me to look at it? Thank you. No,I see there's no way out. But what a very good-proportioned yard itis!"
Having cast his sharp eye all about it, Mr. Bucket returns to hischair next his friend Mr. George and pats Mr. George affectionatelyon the shoulder.
"How are your spirits now, George?"
"All right now," returns the trooper.
"That's your sort!" says Mr. Bucket. "Why should you ever have beenotherwise? A man of your fine figure and constitution has no right tobe out of spirits. That ain't a chest to be out of spirits, is it,ma'am? And you haven't got anything on your mind, you know, George;what could you have on your mind!"
Somewhat harping on this phrase, considering the extent and varietyof his conversational powers, Mr. Bucket twice or thrice repeats itto the pipe he lights, and with a listening face that is particularlyhis own. But the sun of his sociality soon recovers from this briefeclipse and shines again.
"And this is brother, is it, my dears?" says Mr. Bucket, referring toQuebec and Malta for information on the subject of young Woolwich."And a nice brother he is--half-brother I mean to say. For he's tooold to be your boy, ma'am."
"I can certify at all events that he is not anybody else's," returnsMrs. Bagnet, laughing.
"Well, you do surprise me! Yet he's like you, there's no denying.Lord, he's wonderfully like you! But about what you may call thebrow, you know, THERE his father comes out!" Mr. Bucket compares thefaces with one eye shut up, while Mr. Bagnet smokes in stolidsatisfaction.
This is an opportunity for Mrs. Bagnet to inform him that the boy isGeorge's godson.
"George's godson, is he?" rejoins Mr. Bucket with extreme cordiality."I must shake hands over again with George's godson. Godfather andgodson do credit to one another. And what do you intend to make ofhim, ma'am? Does he show any turn for any musical instrument?"
Mr. Bagnet suddenly interposes, "Plays the fife. Beautiful."
"Would you believe it, governor," says Mr. Bucket, struck by thecoincidence, "that when I was a boy I played the fife myself? Not ina scientific way, as I expect he does, but by ear. Lord bless you!'British Grenadiers'--there's a tune to warm an Englishman up! COULDyou give us 'British Grenadiers,' my fine fellow?"
Nothing could be more acceptable to the little circle than this callupon young Woolwich, who immediately fetches his fife and performsthe stirring melody, during which performance Mr. Bucket, muchenlivened, beats time and never fails to come in sharp with theburden, "British Gra-a-anadeers!" In short, he shows so much musicaltaste that Mr. Bagnet actually takes his pipe from his lips toexpress his conviction that he is a singer. Mr. Bucket receives theharmonious impeachment so modestly, confessing how that he did oncechaunt a little, for the expression of the feelings of his own bosom,and with no presumptuous idea of entertaining his friends, that he isasked to sing. Not to be behindhand in the sociality of the evening,he complies and gives them "Believe Me, if All Those Endearing YoungCharms." This ballad, he informs Mrs. Bagnet, he considers to havebeen his most powerful ally in moving the heart of Mrs. Bucket when amaiden, and inducing her to approach the altar--Mr. Bucket's ownwords are "to come up to the scratch."
This sparkling stranger is such a new and agreeable feature in theevening that Mr. George, who testified no great emotions of pleasureon his entrance, begins, in spite of himself, to be rather proud ofhim. He is so friendly, is a man of so many resources, and so easy toget on with, that it is something to have made him known there. Mr.Bagnet becomes, after another pipe, so sensible of the value of hisacquaintance that he solicits the honour of his company on the oldgirl's next birthday. If anything can more closely cement andconsolidate the esteem which Mr. Bucket has formed for the family, itis the discovery of the nature of the occasion. He drinks to Mrs.Bagnet with a warmth approaching to rapture, engages himself for thatday twelvemonth more than thankfully, makes a memorandum of the dayin a large black pocket-book with a girdle to it, and breathes a hopethat Mrs. Bucket and Mrs. Bagnet may before then become, in a manner,sisters. As he says himself, what is public life without privateties? He is in his humble way a public man, but it is not in thatsphere that he finds happiness. No, it must be sought within theconfines of domestic bliss.
It is natural, under these circumstances, that he, in his turn,should remember the friend to whom he is indebted for so promising anacquaintance. And he does. He keeps very close to him. Whatever thesubject of the conversation, he keeps a tender eye upon him. He waitsto walk home with him. He is interested in his very boots andobserves even them attentively as Mr. George sits smokingcross-legged in the chimney-corner.
At length Mr. George rises to depart. At the same moment Mr. Bucket,with the secret sympathy of friendship, also rises. He dotes upon thechildren to the last and remembers the commission he has undertakenfor an absent friend.
"Respecting that second-hand wiolinceller, governor--could yourecommend me such a thing?"
"Scores," says Mr. Bagnet.
"I am obliged to you," returns Mr. Bucket, squeezing his hand."You're a friend in need. A good tone, mind you! My friend is aregular dab at it. Ecod, he saws away at Mozart and Handel and therest of the big-wigs like a thorough workman. And you needn't," saysMr. Bucket in a considerate and private voice, "you needn't commityourself to too low a figure, governor. I don't want to pay too largea price for my friend, but I want you to have your proper percentageand be remunerated for your loss of time. That is but fair. Every manmust live, and ought to it."
Mr. Bagnet shakes his head at the old girl to the effect that theyhave found a jewel of price.
"Suppose I was to give you a look in, say, at half arter tento-morrow morning. Perhaps you could name the figures of a fewwiolincellers of a good tone?" says Mr. Bucket.
Nothing easier. Mr. and Mrs. Bagnet both engage to have the requisiteinformation ready and even hint to each other at the practicabilityof having a small stock collected there for approval.
"Thank you," says Mr. Bucket, "thank you. Good night, ma'am. Goodnight, governor. Good night, darlings. I am much obliged to you forone of the pleasantest evenings I ever spent in my life."
They, on the contrary, are much obliged to him for the pleasure hehas given them in his company; and so they part with many expressionsof goodwill on both sides. "Now George, old boy," says Mr. Bucket,taking his arm at the shop-door, "come along!" As they go down thelittle street and the Bagnets pause for a minute looking after them,Mrs. Bagnet remarks to the worthy Lignum that Mr. Bucket "almostclings to George like, and seems to be really fond of him."
The neighbouring streets being narrow and ill-paved, it is a littleinconvenient to walk there two abreast and arm in arm. Mr. Georgetherefore soon proposes to walk singly. But Mr. Bucket, who cannotmake up his mind to relinquish his friendly hold, replies, "Wait halfa minute, George. I should wish to speak to you first." Immediatelyafterwards, he twists him into a public-house and into a parlour,where he confronts him and claps his own back against the door.
"Now, George," says Mr. Bucket, "duty is duty, and friendship isfriendship. I never want the two to clash if I can help it. I haveendeavoured to make things pleasant to-night, and I put it to youwhether I have done it or not. You must consider yourself in custody,George."
"Custody? What for?" returns the trooper, thunderstruck.
"Now, George," says Mr. Bucket, urging a sensible view of the caseupon him with his fat forefinger, "duty, as you know very well, isone thing, and conversation is another. It's my duty to inform youthat any observations you may make will be liable to be used againstyou. Therefore, George, be careful what you say. You don't happen tohave heard of a murder?"
"Murder!"
"Now, George," says Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger in animpressive state of action, "bear in mind what I've said to you. Iask you nothing. You've been in low spirits this afternoon. I say,you don't happen to have heard of a murder?"
"No. Where has there been a murder?"
"Now, George," says Mr. Bucket, "don't you go and commit yourself.I'm a-going to tell you what I want you for. There has been a murderin Lincoln's Inn Fields--gentleman of the name of Tulkinghorn. He wasshot last night. I want you for that."
The trooper sinks upon a seat behind him, and great drops start outupon his forehead, and a deadly pallor overspreads his face.
"Bucket! It's not possible that Mr. Tulkinghorn has been killed andthat you suspect ME?"
"George," returns Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger going, "it iscertainly possible, because it's the case. This deed was done lastnight at ten o'clock. Now, you know where you were last night at teno'clock, and you'll be able to prove it, no doubt."
"Last night! Last night?" repeats the trooper thoughtfully. Then itflashes upon him. "Why, great heaven, I was there last night!"
"So I have understood, George," returns Mr. Bucket with greatdeliberation. "So I have understood. Likewise you've been very oftenthere. You've been seen hanging about the place, and you've beenheard more than once in a wrangle with him, and it's possible--Idon't say it's certainly so, mind you, but it's possible--that he mayhave been heard to call you a threatening, murdering, dangerousfellow."
The trooper gasps as if he would admit it all if he could speak.
"Now, George," continues Mr. Bucket, putting his hat upon the tablewith an air of business rather in the upholstery way than otherwise,"my wish is, as it has been all the evening, to make things pleasant.I tell you plainly there's a reward out, of a hundred guineas,offered by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. You and me have alwaysbeen pleasant together; but I have got a duty to discharge; and ifthat hundred guineas is to be made, it may as well be made by me asany other man. On all of which accounts, I should hope it was clearto you that I must have you, and that I'm damned if I don't have you.Am I to call in any assistance, or is the trick done?"
Mr. George has recovered himself and stands up like a soldier."Come," he says; "I am ready."
"George," continues Mr. Bucket, "wait a bit!" With his upholsterermanner, as if the trooper were a window to be fitted up, he takesfrom his pocket a pair of handcuffs. "This is a serious charge,George, and such is my duty."
The trooper flushes angrily and hesitates a moment, but holds out histwo hands, clasped together, and says, "There! Put them on!"
Mr. Bucket adjusts them in a moment. "How do you find them? Are theycomfortable? If not, say so, for I wish to make things as pleasant asis consistent with my duty, and I've got another pair in my pocket."This remark he offers like a most respectable tradesman anxious toexecute an order neatly and to the perfect satisfaction of hiscustomer. "They'll do as they are? Very well! Now, you see,George"--he takes a cloak from a corner and begins adjusting it aboutthe trooper's neck--"I was mindful of your feelings when I come out,and brought this on purpose. There! Who's the wiser?"
"Only I," returns the trooper, "but as I know it, do me one more goodturn and pull my hat over my eyes."
"Really, though! Do you mean it? Ain't it a pity? It looks so."
"I can't look chance men in the face with these things on," Mr.George hurriedly replies. "Do, for God's sake, pull my hat forward."
So strongly entreated, Mr. Bucket complies, puts his own hat on, andconducts his prize into the streets, the trooper marching on assteadily as usual, though with his head less erect, and Mr. Bucketsteering him with his elbow over the crossings and up the turnings.



CHAPTER L
Esther's Narrative

It happened that when I came home from Deal I found a note from CaddyJellyby (as we always continued to call her), informing me that herhealth, which had been for some time very delicate, was worse andthat she would be more glad than she could tell me if I would go tosee her. It was a note of a few lines, written from the couch onwhich she lay and enclosed to me in another from her husband, inwhich he seconded her entreaty with much solicitude. Caddy was nowthe mother, and I the godmother, of such a poor little baby--such atiny old-faced mite, with a countenance that seemed to be scarcelyanything but cap-border, and a little lean, long-fingered hand,always clenched under its chin. It would lie in this attitude allday, with its bright specks of eyes open, wondering (as I used toimagine) how it came to be so small and weak. Whenever it was movedit cried, but at all other times it was so patient that the soledesire of its life appeared to be to lie quiet and think. It hadcurious little dark veins in its face and curious little dark marksunder its eyes like faint remembrances of poor Caddy's inky days, andaltogether, to those who were not used to it, it was quite a piteouslittle sight.
But it was enough for Caddy that SHE was used to it. The projectswith which she beguiled her illness, for little Esther's education,and little Esther's marriage, and even for her own old age as thegrandmother of little Esther's little Esthers, was so prettilyexpressive of devotion to this pride of her life that I should betempted to recall some of them but for the timely remembrance that Iam getting on irregularly as it is.
To return to the letter. Caddy had a superstition about me which hadbeen strengthening in her mind ever since that night long ago whenshe had lain asleep with her head in my lap. She almost--I think Imust say quite--believed that I did her good whenever I was near her.Now although this was such a fancy of the affectionate girl's that Iam almost ashamed to mention it, still it might have all the force ofa fact when she was really ill. Therefore I set off to Caddy, with myguardian's consent, post-haste; and she and Prince made so much of methat there never was anything like it.
Next day I went again to sit with her, and next day I went again. Itwas a very easy journey, for I had only to rise a little earlier inthe morning, and keep my accounts, and attend to housekeeping mattersbefore leaving home.
But when I had made these three visits, my guardian said to me, on myreturn at night, "Now, little woman, little woman, this will neverdo. Constant dropping will wear away a stone, and constant coachingwill wear out a Dame Durden. We will go to London for a while andtake possession of our old lodgings."
"Not for me, dear guardian," said I, "for I never feel tired," whichwas strictly true. I was only too happy to be in such request.
"For me then," returned my guardian, "or for Ada, or for both of us.It is somebody's birthday to-morrow, I think."
"Truly I think it is," said I, kissing my darling, who would betwenty-one to-morrow.
"Well," observed my guardian, half pleasantly, half seriously,"that's a great occasion and will give my fair cousin some necessarybusiness to transact in assertion of her independence, and will makeLondon a more convenient place for all of us. So to London we willgo. That being settled, there is another thing--how have you leftCaddy?"
"Very unwell, guardian. I fear it will be some time before sheregains her health and strength."
"What do you call some time, now?" asked my guardian thoughtfully.
"Some weeks, I am afraid."
"Ah!" He began to walk about the room with his hands in his pockets,showing that he had been thinking as much. "Now, what do you sayabout her doctor? Is he a good doctor, my love?"
I felt obliged to confess that I knew nothing to the contrary butthat Prince and I had agreed only that evening that we would like hisopinion to be confirmed by some one.
"Well, you know," returned my guardian quickly, "there's Woodcourt."
I had not meant that, and was rather taken by surprise. For a momentall that I had had in my mind in connexion with Mr. Woodcourt seemedto come back and confuse me.
"You don't object to him, little woman?"
"Object to him, guardian? Oh no!"
"And you don't think the patient would object to him?"
So far from that, I had no doubt of her being prepared to have agreat reliance on him and to like him very much. I said that he wasno stranger to her personally, for she had seen him often in his kindattendance on Miss Flite.
"Very good," said my guardian. "He has been here to-day, my dear, andI will see him about it to-morrow."
I felt in this short conversation--though I did not know how, for shewas quiet, and we interchanged no look--that my dear girl wellremembered how merrily she had clasped me round the waist when noother hands than Caddy's had brought me the little parting token.This caused me to feel that I ought to tell her, and Caddy too, thatI was going to be the mistress of Bleak House and that if I avoidedthat disclosure any longer I might become less worthy in my own eyesof its master's love. Therefore, when we went upstairs and had waitedlistening until the clock struck twelve in order that only I might bethe first to wish my darling all good wishes on her birthday and totake her to my heart, I set before her, just as I had set beforemyself, the goodness and honour of her cousin John and the happy lifethat was in store for me. If ever my darling were fonder of me atone time than another in all our intercourse, she was surely fondestof me that night. And I was so rejoiced to know it and so comfortedby the sense of having done right in casting this last idlereservation away that I was ten times happier than I had been before.I had scarcely thought it a reservation a few hours ago, but now thatit was gone I felt as if I understood its nature better.
Next day we went to London. We found our old lodging vacant, and inhalf an hour were quietly established there, as if we had never goneaway. Mr. Woodcourt dined with us to celebrate my darling's birthday,and we were as pleasant as we could be with the great blank among usthat Richard's absence naturally made on such an occasion. After thatday I was for some weeks--eight or nine as I remember--very much withCaddy, and thus it fell out that I saw less of Ada at this time thanany other since we had first come together, except the time of my ownillness. She often came to Caddy's, but our function there was toamuse and cheer her, and we did not talk in our usual confidentialmanner. Whenever I went home at night we were together, but Caddy'srest was broken by pain, and I often remained to nurse her.
With her husband and her poor little mite of a baby to love and theirhome to strive for, what a good creature Caddy was! So self-denying,so uncomplaining, so anxious to get well on their account, so afraidof giving trouble, and so thoughtful of the unassisted labours of herhusband and the comforts of old Mr. Turveydrop; I had never known thebest of her until now. And it seemed so curious that her pale faceand helpless figure should be lying there day after day where dancingwas the business of life, where the kit and the apprentices beganearly every morning in the ball-room, and where the untidy little boywaltzed by himself in the kitchen all the afternoon.
At Caddy's request I took the supreme direction of her apartment,trimmed it up, and pushed her, couch and all, into a lighter and moreairy and more cheerful corner than she had yet occupied; then, everyday, when we were in our neatest array, I used to lay my small smallnamesake in her arms and sit down to chat or work or read to her. Itwas at one of the first of these quiet times that I told Caddy aboutBleak House.
We had other visitors besides Ada. First of all we had Prince, who inhis hurried intervals of teaching used to come softly in and sitsoftly down, with a face of loving anxiety for Caddy and the verylittle child. Whatever Caddy's condition really was, she never failedto declare to Prince that she was all but well--which I, heavenforgive me, never failed to confirm. This would put Prince in suchgood spirits that he would sometimes take the kit from his pocket andplay a chord or two to astonish the baby, which I never knew it to doin the least degree, for my tiny namesake never noticed it at all.
Then there was Mrs. Jellyby. She would come occasionally, with herusual distraught manner, and sit calmly looking miles beyond hergrandchild as if her attention were absorbed by a young Borrioboolanon its native shores. As bright-eyed as ever, as serene, and asuntidy, she would say, "Well, Caddy, child, and how do you doto-day?" And then would sit amiably smiling and taking no notice ofthe reply or would sweetly glide off into a calculation of the numberof letters she had lately received and answered or of thecoffee-bearing power of Borrioboola-Gha. This she would always dowith a serene contempt for our limited sphere of action, not to bedisguised.
Then there was old Mr. Turveydrop, who was from morning to night andfrom night to morning the subject of innumerable precautions. If thebaby cried, it was nearly stifled lest the noise should make himuncomfortable. If the fire wanted stirring in the night, it wassurreptitiously done lest his rest should be broken. If Caddyrequired any little comfort that the house contained, she firstcarefully discussed whether he was likely to require it too. Inreturn for this consideration he would come into the room once a day,all but blessing it--showing a condescension, and a patronage, and agrace of manner in dispensing the light of his high-shoulderedpresence from which I might have supposed him (if I had not knownbetter) to have been the benefactor of Caddy's life.
"My Caroline," he would say, making the nearest approach that hecould to bending over her. "Tell me that you are better to-day."
"Oh, much better, thank you, Mr. Turveydrop," Caddy would reply.
"Delighted! Enchanted! And our dear Miss Summerson. She is not quiteprostrated by fatigue?" Here he would crease up his eyelids and kisshis fingers to me, though I am happy to say he had ceased to beparticular in his attentions since I had been so altered.
"Not at all," I would assure him.
"Charming! We must take care of our dear Caroline, Miss Summerson. Wemust spare nothing that will restore her. We must nourish her. Mydear Caroline"--he would turn to his daughter-in-law with infinitegenerosity and protection--"want for nothing, my love. Frame a wishand gratify it, my daughter. Everything this house contains,everything my room contains, is at your service, my dear. Do not," hewould sometimes add in a burst of deportment, "even allow my simplerequirements to be considered if they should at any time interferewith your own, my Caroline. Your necessities are greater than mine."
He had established such a long prescriptive right to this deportment(his son's inheritance from his mother) that I several times knewboth Caddy and her husband to be melted to tears by theseaffectionate self-sacrifices.
"Nay, my dears," he would remonstrate; and when I saw Caddy's thinarm about his fat neck as he said it, I would be melted too, thoughnot by the same process. "Nay, nay! I have promised never to leaveye. Be dutiful and affectionate towards me, and I ask no otherreturn. Now, bless ye! I am going to the Park."
He would take the air there presently and get an appetite for hishotel dinner. I hope I do old Mr. Turveydrop no wrong, but I neversaw any better traits in him than these I faithfully record, exceptthat he certainly conceived a liking for Peepy and would take thechild out walking with great pomp, always on those occasions sendinghim home before he went to dinner himself, and occasionally with ahalfpenny in his pocket. But even this disinterestedness was attendedwith no inconsiderable cost, to my knowledge, for before Peepy wassufficiently decorated to walk hand in hand with the professor ofdeportment, he had to be newly dressed, at the expense of Caddy andher husband, from top to toe.
Last of our visitors, there was Mr. Jellyby. Really when he used tocome in of an evening, and ask Caddy in his meek voice how she was,and then sit down with his head against the wall, and make no attemptto say anything more, I liked him very much. If he found me bustlingabout doing any little thing, he sometimes half took his coat off, asif with an intention of helping by a great exertion; but he never gotany further. His sole occupation was to sit with his head against thewall, looking hard at the thoughtful baby; and I could not quitedivest my mind of a fancy that they understood one another.
I have not counted Mr. Woodcourt among our visitors because he wasnow Caddy's regular attendant. She soon began to improve under hiscare, but he was so gentle, so skilful, so unwearying in the pains hetook that it is not to be wondered at, I am sure. I saw a good dealof Mr. Woodcourt during this time, though not so much as might besupposed, for knowing Caddy to be safe in his hands, I often slippedhome at about the hours when he was expected. We frequently met,notwithstanding. I was quite reconciled to myself now, but I stillfelt glad to think that he was sorry for me, and he still WAS sorryfor me I believed. He helped Mr. Badger in his professionalengagements, which were numerous, and had as yet no settled projectsfor the future.
It was when Caddy began to recover that I began to notice a change inmy dear girl. I cannot say how it first presented itself to me,because I observed it in many slight particulars which were nothingin themselves and only became something when they were piecedtogether. But I made it out, by putting them together, that Ada wasnot so frankly cheerful with me as she used to be. Her tenderness forme was as loving and true as ever; I did not for a moment doubt that;but there was a quiet sorrow about her which she did not confide tome, and in which I traced some hidden regret.
Now, I could not understand this, and I was so anxious for thehappiness of my own pet that it caused me some uneasiness and set methinking often. At length, feeling sure that Ada suppressed thissomething from me lest it should make me unhappy too, it came into myhead that she was a little grieved--for me--by what I had told herabout Bleak House.
How I persuaded myself that this was likely, I don't know. I had noidea that there was any selfish reference in my doing so. I was notgrieved for myself: I was quite contented and quite happy. Still,that Ada might be thinking--for me, though I had abandoned all suchthoughts--of what once was, but was now all changed, seemed so easyto believe that I believed it.
What could I do to reassure my darling (I considered then) and showher that I had no such feelings? Well! I could only be as brisk andbusy as possible, and that I had tried to be all along. However, asCaddy's illness had certainly interfered, more or less, with my homeduties--though I had always been there in the morning to make myguardian's breakfast, and he had a hundred times laughed and saidthere must be two little women, for his little woman was nevermissing--I resolved to be doubly diligent and gay. So I went aboutthe house humming all the tunes I knew, and I sat working and workingin a desperate manner, and I talked and talked, morning, noon, andnight.
And still there was the same shade between me and my darling.
"So, Dame Trot," observed my guardian, shutting up his book one nightwhen we were all three together, "so Woodcourt has restored CaddyJellyby to the full enjoyment of life again?"
"Yes," I said; "and to be repaid by such gratitude as hers is to bemade rich, guardian."
"I wish it was," he returned, "with all my heart."
So did I too, for that matter. I said so.
"Aye! We would make him as rich as a Jew if we knew how. Would wenot, little woman?"
I laughed as I worked and replied that I was not sure about that, forit might spoil him, and he might not be so useful, and there might bemany who could ill spare him. As Miss Flite, and Caddy herself, andmany others.
"True," said my guardian. "I had forgotten that. But we would agreeto make him rich enough to live, I suppose? Rich enough to work withtolerable peace of mind? Rich enough to have his own happy home andhis own household gods--and household goddess, too, perhaps?"
That was quite another thing, I said. We must all agree in that.
"To be sure," said my guardian. "All of us. I have a great regard forWoodcourt, a high esteem for him; and I have been sounding himdelicately about his plans. It is difficult to offer aid to anindependent man with that just kind of pride which he possesses. Andyet I would be glad to do it if I might or if I knew how. He seemshalf inclined for another voyage. But that appears like casting sucha man away."
"It might open a new world to him," said I.
"So it might, little woman," my guardian assented. "I doubt if heexpects much of the old world. Do you know I have fancied that hesometimes feels some particular disappointment or misfortuneencountered in it. You never heard of anything of that sort?"
I shook my head.
"Humph," said my guardian. "I am mistaken, I dare say." As there wasa little pause here, which I thought, for my dear girl'ssatisfaction, had better be filled up, I hummed an air as I workedwhich was a favourite with my guardian.
"And do you think Mr. Woodcourt will make another voyage?" I askedhim when I had hummed it quietly all through.
"I don't quite know what to think, my dear, but I should say it waslikely at present that he will give a long trip to another country."
"I am sure he will take the best wishes of all our hearts with himwherever he goes," said I; "and though they are not riches, he willnever be the poorer for them, guardian, at least."
"Never, little woman," he replied.
I was sitting in my usual place, which was now beside my guardian'schair. That had not been my usual place before the letter, but it wasnow. I looked up to Ada, who was sitting opposite, and I saw, as shelooked at me, that her eyes were filled with tears and that tearswere falling down her face. I felt that I had only to be placid andmerry once for all to undeceive my dear and set her loving heart atrest. I really was so, and I had nothing to do but to be myself.
So I made my sweet girl lean upon my shoulder--how little thinkingwhat was heavy on her mind!--and I said she was not quite well, andput my arm about her, and took her upstairs. When we were in our ownroom, and when she might perhaps have told me what I was sounprepared to hear, I gave her no encouragement to confide in me; Inever thought she stood in need of it.
"Oh, my dear good Esther," said Ada, "if I could only make up my mindto speak to you and my cousin John when you are together!"
"Why, my love!" I remonstrated. "Ada, why should you not speak tous!"
Ada only dropped her head and pressed me closer to her heart.
"You surely don't forget, my beauty," said I, smiling, "what quiet,old-fashioned people we are and how I have settled down to be thediscreetest of dames? You don't forget how happily and peacefully mylife is all marked out for me, and by whom? I am certain that youdon't forget by what a noble character, Ada. That can never be."
"No, never, Esther."
"Why then, my dear," said I, "there can be nothing amiss--and whyshould you not speak to us?"
"Nothing amiss, Esther?" returned Ada. "Oh, when I think of all theseyears, and of his fatherly care and kindness, and of the oldrelations among us, and of you, what shall I do, what shall I do!"
I looked at my child in some wonder, but I thought it better not toanswer otherwise than by cheering her, and so I turned off into manylittle recollections of our life together and prevented her fromsaying more. When she lay down to sleep, and not before, I returnedto my guardian to say good night, and then I came back to Ada and satnear her for a little while.
She was asleep, and I thought as I looked at her that she was alittle changed. I had thought so more than once lately. I could notdecide, even looking at her while she was unconscious, how she waschanged, but something in the familiar beauty of her face lookeddifferent to me. My guardian's old hopes of her and Richard arosesorrowfully in my mind, and I said to myself, "She has been anxiousabout him," and I wondered how that love would end.
When I had come home from Caddy's while she was ill, I had oftenfound Ada at work, and she had always put her work away, and I hadnever known what it was. Some of it now lay in a drawer near her,which was not quite closed. I did not open the drawer, but I stillrather wondered what the work could be, for it was evidently nothingfor herself.
And I noticed as I kissed my dear that she lay with one hand underher pillow so that it was hidden.
How much less amiable I must have been than they thought me, how muchless amiable than I thought myself, to be so preoccupied with my owncheerfulness and contentment as to think that it only rested with meto put my dear girl right and set her mind at peace!
But I lay down, self-deceived, in that belief. And I awoke in it nextday to find that there was still the same shade between me and mydarling.



CHAPTER LI
Enlightened

When Mr. Woodcourt arrived in London, he went, that very same day, toMr. Vholes's in Symond's Inn. For he never once, from the moment whenI entreated him to be a friend to Richard, neglected or forgot hispromise. He had told me that he accepted the charge as a sacredtrust, and he was ever true to it in that spirit.
He found Mr. Vholes in his office and informed Mr. Vholes of hisagreement with Richard that he should call there to learn hisaddress.
"Just so, sir," said Mr. Vholes. "Mr. C.'s address is not a hundredmiles from here, sir, Mr. C.'s address is not a hundred miles fromhere. Would you take a seat, sir?"
Mr. Woodcourt thanked Mr. Vholes, but he had no business with himbeyond what he had mentioned.
"Just so, sir. I believe, sir," said Mr. Vholes, still quietlyinsisting on the seat by not giving the address, "that you haveinfluence with Mr. C. Indeed I am aware that you have."
"I was not aware of it myself," returned Mr. Woodcourt; "but Isuppose you know best."
"Sir," rejoined Mr. Vholes, self-contained as usual, voice and all,"it is a part of my professional duty to know best. It is a part ofmy professional duty to study and to understand a gentleman whoconfides his interests to me. In my professional duty I shall not bewanting, sir, if I know it. I may, with the best intentions, bewanting in it without knowing it; but not if I know it, sir."
Mr. Woodcourt again mentioned the address.
"Give me leave, sir," said Mr. Vholes. "Bear with me for a moment.Sir, Mr. C. is playing for a considerable stake, and cannot playwithout--need I say what?"
"Money, I presume?"
"Sir," said Mr. Vholes, "to be honest with you (honesty being mygolden rule, whether I gain by it or lose, and I find that Igenerally lose), money is the word. Now, sir, upon the chances of Mr.C.'s game I express to you no opinion, NO opinion. It might be highlyimpolitic in Mr. C., after playing so long and so high, to leave off;it might be the reverse; I say nothing. No, sir," said Mr. Vholes,bringing his hand flat down upon his desk in a positive manner,"nothing."
"You seem to forget," returned Mr. Woodcourt, "that I ask you to saynothing and have no interest in anything you say."
"Pardon me, sir!" retorted Mr. Vholes. "You do yourself an injustice.No, sir! Pardon me! You shall not--shall not in my office, if I knowit--do yourself an injustice. You are interested in anything, and ineverything, that relates to your friend. I know human nature muchbetter, sir, than to admit for an instant that a gentleman of yourappearance is not interested in whatever concerns his friend."
"Well," replied Mr. Woodcourt, "that may be. I am particularlyinterested in his address."
"The number, sir," said Mr. Vholes parenthetically, "I believe I havealready mentioned. If Mr. C. is to continue to play for thisconsiderable stake, sir, he must have funds. Understand me! There arefunds in hand at present. I ask for nothing; there are funds in hand.But for the onward play, more funds must be provided, unless Mr. C.is to throw away what he has already ventured, which is wholly andsolely a point for his consideration. This, sir, I take theopportunity of stating openly to you as the friend of Mr. C. Withoutfunds I shall always be happy to appear and act for Mr. C. to theextent of all such costs as are safe to be allowed out of the estate,not beyond that. I could not go beyond that, sir, without wrongingsome one. I must either wrong my three dear girls or my venerablefather, who is entirely dependent on me, in the Vale of Taunton; orsome one. Whereas, sir, my resolution is (call it weakness or follyif you please) to wrong no one."
Mr. Woodcourt rather sternly rejoined that he was glad to hear it.
"I wish, sir," said Mr. Vholes, "to leave a good name behind me.Therefore I take every opportunity of openly stating to a friend ofMr. C. how Mr. C. is situated. As to myself, sir, the labourer isworthy of his hire. If I undertake to put my shoulder to the wheel, Ido it, and I earn what I get. I am here for that purpose. My name ispainted on the door outside, with that object."
"And Mr. Carstone's address, Mr. Vholes?"
"Sir," returned Mr. Vholes, "as I believe I have already mentioned,it is next door. On the second story you will find Mr. C.'sapartments. Mr. C. desires to be near his professional adviser, and Iam far from objecting, for I court inquiry."
Upon this Mr. Woodcourt wished Mr. Vholes good day and went in searchof Richard, the change in whose appearance he began to understand nowbut too well.
He found him in a dull room, fadedly furnished, much as I had foundhim in his barrack-room but a little while before, except that he wasnot writing but was sitting with a book before him, from which hiseyes and thoughts were far astray. As the door chanced to be standingopen, Mr. Woodcourt was in his presence for some moments withoutbeing perceived, and he told me that he never could forget thehaggardness of his face and the dejection of his manner before he wasaroused from his dream.
"Woodcourt, my dear fellow," cried Richard, starting up with extendedhands, "you come upon my vision like a ghost."
"A friendly one," he replied, "and only waiting, as they say ghostsdo, to be addressed. How does the mortal world go?" They were seatednow, near together.
"Badly enough, and slowly enough," said Richard, "speaking at leastfor my part of it."
"What part is that?"
"The Chancery part."
"I never heard," returned Mr. Woodcourt, shaking his head, "of itsgoing well yet."
"Nor I," said Richard moodily. "Who ever did?" He brightened again ina moment and said with his natural openness, "Woodcourt, I should besorry to be misunderstood by you, even if I gained by it in yourestimation. You must know that I have done no good this long time. Ihave not intended to do much harm, but I seem to have been capable ofnothing else. It may be that I should have done better by keeping outof the net into which my destiny has worked me, but I think not,though I dare say you will soon hear, if you have not already heard,a very different opinion. To make short of a long story, I am afraidI have wanted an object; but I have an object now--or it has me--andit is too late to discuss it. Take me as I am, and make the best ofme."
"A bargain," said Mr. Woodcourt. "Do as much by me in return."
"Oh! You," returned Richard, "you can pursue your art for its ownsake, and can put your hand upon the plough and never turn, and canstrike a purpose out of anything. You and I are very differentcreatures."
He spoke regretfully and lapsed for a moment into his wearycondition.
"Well, well!" he cried, shaking it off. "Everything has an end. Weshall see! So you will take me as I am, and make the best of me?"
"Aye! Indeed I will." They shook hands upon it laughingly, but indeep earnestness. I can answer for one of them with my heart ofhearts.
"You come as a godsend," said Richard, "for I have seen nobody hereyet but Vholes. Woodcourt, there is one subject I should like tomention, for once and for all, in the beginning of our treaty. Youcan hardly make the best of me if I don't. You know, I dare say, thatI have an attachment to my cousin Ada?"
Mr. Woodcourt replied that I had hinted as much to him. "Now pray,"returned Richard, "don't think me a heap of selfishness. Don'tsuppose that I am splitting my head and half breaking my heart overthis miserable Chancery suit for my own rights and interests alone.Ada's are bound up with mine; they can't be separated; Vholes worksfor both of us. Do think of that!"
He was so very solicitous on this head that Mr. Woodcourt gave himthe strongest assurances that he did him no injustice.
"You see," said Richard, with something pathetic in his manner oflingering on the point, though it was off-hand and unstudied, "to anupright fellow like you, bringing a friendly face like yours here, Icannot bear the thought of appearing selfish and mean. I want to seeAda righted, Woodcourt, as well as myself; I want to do my utmost toright her, as well as myself; I venture what I can scrape together toextricate her, as well as myself. Do, I beseech you, think of that!"
Afterwards, when Mr. Woodcourt came to reflect on what had passed, hewas so very much impressed by the strength of Richard's anxiety onthis point that in telling me generally of his first visit toSymond's Inn he particularly dwelt upon it. It revived a fear I hadhad before that my dear girl's little property would be absorbed byMr. Vholes and that Richard's justification to himself would besincerely this. It was just as I began to take care of Caddy that theinterview took place, and I now return to the time when Caddy hadrecovered and the shade was still between me and my darling.
I proposed to Ada that morning that we should go and see Richard. Ita little surprised me to find that she hesitated and was not soradiantly willing as I had expected.
"My dear," said I, "you have not had any difference with Richardsince I have been so much away?"
"No, Esther."
"Not heard of him, perhaps?" said I.
"Yes, I have heard of him," said Ada.
Such tears in her eyes, and such love in her face. I could not makemy darling out. Should I go to Richard's by myself? I said. No, Adathought I had better not go by myself. Would she go with me? Yes, Adathought she had better go with me. Should we go now? Yes, let us gonow. Well, I could not understand my darling, with the tears in hereyes and the love in her face!
We were soon equipped and went out. It was a sombre day, and drops ofchill rain fell at intervals. It was one of those colourless dayswhen everything looks heavy and harsh. The houses frowned at us, thedust rose at us, the smoke swooped at us, nothing made any compromiseabout itself or wore a softened aspect. I fancied my beautiful girlquite out of place in the rugged streets, and I thought there weremore funerals passing along the dismal pavements than I had ever seenbefore.
We had first to find out Symond's Inn. We were going to inquire in ashop when Ada said she thought it was near Chancery Lane. "We are notlikely to be far out, my love, if we go in that direction," said I.So to Chancery Lane we went, and there, sure enough, we saw itwritten up. Symond's Inn.
We had next to find out the number. "Or Mr. Vholes's office will do,"I recollected, "for Mr. Vholes's office is next door." Upon which Adasaid, perhaps that was Mr. Vholes's office in the corner there. Andit really was.
Then came the question, which of the two next doors? I was going forthe one, and my darling was going for the other; and my darling wasright again. So up we went to the second story, when we came toRichard's name in great white letters on a hearse-like panel.
I should have knocked, but Ada said perhaps we had better turn thehandle and go in. Thus we came to Richard, poring over a tablecovered with dusty bundles of papers which seemed to me like dustymirrors reflecting his own mind. Wherever I looked I saw the ominouswords that ran in it repeated. Jarndyce and Jarndyce.
He received us very affectionately, and we sat down. "If you had comea little earlier," he said, "you would have found Woodcourt here.There never was such a good fellow as Woodcourt is. He finds time tolook in between-whiles, when anybody else with half his work to dowould be thinking about not being able to come. And he is so cheery,so fresh, so sensible, so earnest, so--everything that I am not, thatthe place brightens whenever he comes, and darkens whenever he goesagain."
"God bless him," I thought, "for his truth to me!"
"He is not so sanguine, Ada," continued Richard, casting his dejectedlook over the bundles of papers, "as Vholes and I are usually, but heis only an outsider and is not in the mysteries. We have gone intothem, and he has not. He can't be expected to know much of such alabyrinth."
As his look wandered over the papers again and he passed his twohands over his head, I noticed how sunken and how large his eyesappeared, how dry his lips were, and how his finger-nails were allbitten away.
"Is this a healthy place to live in, Richard, do you think?" said I.
"Why, my dear Minerva," answered Richard with his old gay laugh, "itis neither a rural nor a cheerful place; and when the sun shineshere, you may lay a pretty heavy wager that it is shining brightly inan open spot. But it's well enough for the time. It's near theoffices and near Vholes."
"Perhaps," I hinted, "a change from both--"
"Might do me good?" said Richard, forcing a laugh as he finished thesentence. "I shouldn't wonder! But it can only come in one waynow--in one of two ways, I should rather say. Either the suit must beended, Esther, or the suitor. But it shall be the suit, my dear girl,the suit, my dear girl!"
These latter words were addressed to Ada, who was sitting nearest tohim. Her face being turned away from me and towards him, I could notsee it.
"We are doing very well," pursued Richard. "Vholes will tell you so.We are really spinning along. Ask Vholes. We are giving them no rest.Vholes knows all their windings and turnings, and we are upon themeverywhere. We have astonished them already. We shall rouse up thatnest of sleepers, mark my words!"
His hopefulness had long been more painful to me than hisdespondency; it was so unlike hopefulness, had something so fierce inits determination to be it, was so hungry and eager, and yet soconscious of being forced and unsustainable that it had long touchedme to the heart. But the commentary upon it now indelibly written inhis handsome face made it far more distressing than it used to be. Isay indelibly, for I felt persuaded that if the fatal cause couldhave been for ever terminated, according to his brightest visions, inthat same hour, the traces of the premature anxiety, self-reproach,and disappointment it had occasioned him would have remained upon hisfeatures to the hour of his death.
"The sight of our dear little woman," said Richard, Ada stillremaining silent and quiet, "is so natural to me, and hercompassionate face is so like the face of old days--"
Ah! No, no. I smiled and shook my head.
"--So exactly like the face of old days," said Richard in his cordialvoice, and taking my hand with the brotherly regard which nothingever changed, "that I can't make pretences with her. I fluctuate alittle; that's the truth. Sometimes I hope, my dear, and sometimesI--don't quite despair, but nearly. I get," said Richard,relinquishing my hand gently and walking across the room, "so tired!"
He took a few turns up and down and sunk upon the sofa. "I get," herepeated gloomily, "so tired. It is such weary, weary work!"
He was leaning on his arm saying these words in a meditative voiceand looking at the ground when my darling rose, put off her bonnet,kneeled down beside him with her golden hair falling like sunlight onhis head, clasped her two arms round his neck, and turned her face tome. Oh, what a loving and devoted face I saw!
"Esther, dear," she said very quietly, "I am not going home again."
A light shone in upon me all at once.
"Never any more. I am going to stay with my dear husband. We havebeen married above two months. Go home without me, my own Esther; Ishall never go home any more!" With those words my darling drew hishead down on her breast and held it there. And if ever in my life Isaw a love that nothing but death could change, I saw it then beforeme.
"Speak to Esther, my dearest," said Richard, breaking the silencepresently. "Tell her how it was."
I met her before she could come to me and folded her in my arms. Weneither of us spoke, but with her cheek against my own I wanted tohear nothing. "My pet," said I. "My love. My poor, poor girl!" Ipitied her so much. I was very fond of Richard, but the impulse thatI had upon me was to pity her so much.
"Esther, will you forgive me? Will my cousin John forgive me?"
"My dear," said I, "to doubt it for a moment is to do him a greatwrong. And as to me!" Why, as to me, what had I to forgive!
I dried my sobbing darling's eyes and sat beside her on the sofa, andRichard sat on my other side; and while I was reminded of that sodifferent night when they had first taken me into their confidenceand had gone on in their own wild happy way, they told me betweenthem how it was.
"All I had was Richard's," Ada said; "and Richard would not take it,Esther, and what could I do but be his wife when I loved him dearly!"
"And you were so fully and so kindly occupied, excellent DameDurden," said Richard, "that how could we speak to you at such atime! And besides, it was not a long-considered step. We went out onemorning and were married."
"And when it was done, Esther," said my darling, "I was alwaysthinking how to tell you and what to do for the best. And sometimes Ithought you ought to know it directly, and sometimes I thought youought not to know it and keep it from my cousin John; and I could nottell what to do, and I fretted very much."
How selfish I must have been not to have thought of this before! Idon't know what I said now. I was so sorry, and yet I was so fond ofthem and so glad that they were fond of me; I pitied them so much,and yet I felt a kind of pride in their loving one another. I neverhad experienced such painful and pleasurable emotion at one time, andin my own heart I did not know which predominated. But I was notthere to darken their way; I did not do that.
When I was less foolish and more composed, my darling took herwedding-ring from her bosom, and kissed it, and put it on. Then Iremembered last night and told Richard that ever since her marriageshe had worn it at night when there was no one to see. Then Adablushingly asked me how did I know that, my dear. Then I told Ada howI had seen her hand concealed under her pillow and had little thoughtwhy, my dear. Then they began telling me how it was all over again,and I began to be sorry and glad again, and foolish again, and tohide my plain old face as much as I could lest I should put them outof heart.
Thus the time went on until it became necessary for me to think ofreturning. When that time arrived it was the worst of all, for thenmy darling completely broke down. She clung round my neck, calling meby every dear name she could think of and saying what should she dowithout me! Nor was Richard much better; and as for me, I should havebeen the worst of the three if I had not severely said to myself,"Now Esther, if you do, I'll never speak to you again!"
"Why, I declare," said I, "I never saw such a wife. I don't think sheloves her husband at all. Here, Richard, take my child, for goodness'sake." But I held her tight all the while, and could have wept overher I don't know how long.
"I give this dear young couple notice," said I, "that I am only goingaway to come back to-morrow and that I shall be always comingbackwards and forwards until Symond's Inn is tired of the sight ofme. So I shall not say good-bye, Richard. For what would be the useof that, you know, when I am coming back so soon!"
I had given my darling to him now, and I meant to go; but I lingeredfor one more look of the precious face which it seemed to rive myheart to turn from.
So I said (in a merry, bustling manner) that unless they gave me someencouragement to come back, I was not sure that I could take thatliberty, upon which my dear girl looked up, faintly smiling throughher tears, and I folded her lovely face between my hands, and gave itone last kiss, and laughed, and ran away.
And when I got downstairs, oh, how I cried! It almost seemed to methat I had lost my Ada for ever. I was so lonely and so blank withouther, and it was so desolate to be going home with no hope of seeingher there, that I could get no comfort for a little while as I walkedup and down in a dim corner sobbing and crying.
I came to myself by and by, after a little scolding, and took a coachhome. The poor boy whom I had found at St. Albans had reappeared ashort time before and was lying at the point of death; indeed, wasthen dead, though I did not know it. My guardian had gone out toinquire about him and did not return to dinner. Being quite alone, Icried a little again, though on the whole I don't think I behaved sovery, very ill.
It was only natural that I should not be quite accustomed to the lossof my darling yet. Three or four hours were not a long time afteryears. But my mind dwelt so much upon the uncongenial scene in whichI had left her, and I pictured it as such an overshadowedstony-hearted one, and I so longed to be near her and taking somesort of care of her, that I determined to go back in the evening onlyto look up at her windows.
It was foolish, I dare say, but it did not then seem at all so to me,and it does not seem quite so even now. I took Charley into myconfidence, and we went out at dusk. It was dark when we came to thenew strange home of my dear girl, and there was a light behind theyellow blinds. We walked past cautiously three or four times, lookingup, and narrowly missed encountering Mr. Vholes, who came out of hisoffice while we were there and turned his head to look up too beforegoing home. The sight of his lank black figure and the lonesome airof that nook in the dark were favourable to the state of my mind. Ithought of the youth and love and beauty of my dear girl, shut up insuch an ill-assorted refuge, almost as if it were a cruel place.
It was very solitary and very dull, and I did not doubt that I mightsafely steal upstairs. I left Charley below and went up with a lightfoot, not distressed by any glare from the feeble oil lanterns on theway. I listened for a few moments, and in the musty rotting silenceof the house believed that I could hear the murmur of their youngvoices. I put my lips to the hearse-like panel of the door as a kissfor my dear and came quietly down again, thinking that one of thesedays I would confess to the visit.
And it really did me good, for though nobody but Charley and I knewanything about it, I somehow felt as if it had diminished theseparation between Ada and me and had brought us together again forthose moments. I went back, not quite accustomed yet to the change,but all the better for that hovering about my darling.
My guardian had come home and was standing thoughtfully by the darkwindow. When I went in, his face cleared and he came to his seat, buthe caught the light upon my face as I took mine.
"Little woman," said he, "You have been crying."
"Why, yes, guardian," said I, "I am afraid I have been, a little. Adahas been in such distress, and is so very sorry, guardian."
I put my arm on the back of his chair, and I saw in his glance thatmy words and my look at her empty place had prepared him.
"Is she married, my dear?"
I told him all about it and how her first entreaties had referred tohis forgiveness.
"She has no need of it," said he. "Heaven bless her and her husband!"But just as my first impulse had been to pity her, so was his. "Poorgirl, poor girl! Poor Rick! Poor Ada!"
Neither of us spoke after that, until he said with a sigh, "Well,well, my dear! Bleak House is thinning fast."
"But its mistress remains, guardian." Though I was timid about sayingit, I ventured because of the sorrowful tone in which he had spoken."She will do all she can to make it happy," said I.
"She will succeed, my love!"
The letter had made no difference between us except that the seat byhis side had come to be mine; it made none now. He turned his oldbright fatherly look upon me, laid his hand on my hand in his oldway, and said again, "She will succeed, my dear. Nevertheless, BleakHouse is thinning fast, O little woman!"
I was sorry presently that this was all we said about that. I wasrather disappointed. I feared I might not quite have been all I hadmeant to be since the letter and the answer.



CHAPTER LII
Obstinacy

But one other day had intervened when, early in the morning as wewere going to breakfast, Mr. Woodcourt came in haste with theastounding news that a terrible murder had been committed for whichMr. George had been apprehended and was in custody. When he told usthat a large reward was offered by Sir Leicester Dedlock for themurderer's apprehension, I did not in my first consternationunderstand why; but a few more words explained to me that themurdered person was Sir Leicester's lawyer, and immediately mymother's dread of him rushed into my remembrance.
This unforeseen and violent removal of one whom she had long watchedand distrusted and who had long watched and distrusted her, one forwhom she could have had few intervals of kindness, always dreading inhim a dangerous and secret enemy, appeared so awful that my firstthoughts were of her. How appalling to hear of such a death and beable to feel no pity! How dreadful to remember, perhaps, that she hadsometimes even wished the old man away who was so swiftly hurried outof life!
Such crowding reflections, increasing the distress and fear I alwaysfelt when the name was mentioned, made me so agitated that I couldscarcely hold my place at the table. I was quite unable to follow theconversation until I had had a little time to recover. But when Icame to myself and saw how shocked my guardian was and found thatthey were earnestly speaking of the suspected man and recalling everyfavourable impression we had formed of him out of the good we hadknown of him, my interest and my fears were so strongly aroused inhis behalf that I was quite set up again.
"Guardian, you don't think it possible that he is justly accused?"
"My dear, I CAN'T think so. This man whom we have seen soopen-hearted and compassionate, who with the might of a giant has thegentleness of a child, who looks as brave a fellow as ever lived andis so simple and quiet with it, this man justly accused of such acrime? I can't believe it. It's not that I don't or I won't. Ican't!"
"And I can't," said Mr. Woodcourt. "Still, whatever we believe orknow of him, we had better not forget that some appearances areagainst him. He bore an animosity towards the deceased gentleman. Hehas openly mentioned it in many places. He is said to have expressedhimself violently towards him, and he certainly did about him, to myknowledge. He admits that he was alone on the scene of the murderwithin a few minutes of its commission. I sincerely believe him to beas innocent of any participation in it as I am, but these are allreasons for suspicion falling upon him."
"True," said my guardian. And he added, turning to me, "It would bedoing him a very bad service, my dear, to shut our eyes to the truthin any of these respects."
I felt, of course, that we must admit, not only to ourselves but toothers, the full force of the circumstances against him. Yet I knewwithal (I could not help saying) that their weight would not induceus to desert him in his need.
"Heaven forbid!" returned my guardian. "We will stand by him, as hehimself stood by the two poor creatures who are gone." He meant Mr.Gridley and the boy, to both of whom Mr. George had given shelter.
Mr. Woodcourt then told us that the trooper's man had been with himbefore day, after wandering about the streets all night like adistracted creature. That one of the trooper's first anxieties wasthat we should not suppose him guilty. That he had charged hismessenger to represent his perfect innocence with every solemnassurance he could send us. That Mr. Woodcourt had only quieted theman by undertaking to come to our house very early in the morningwith these representations. He added that he was now upon his way tosee the prisoner himself.
My guardian said directly he would go too. Now, besides that I likedthe retired soldier very much and that he liked me, I had that secretinterest in what had happened which was only known to my guardian. Ifelt as if it came close and near to me. It seemed to becomepersonally important to myself that the truth should be discoveredand that no innocent people should be suspected, for suspicion, oncerun wild, might run wilder.
In a word, I felt as if it were my duty and obligation to go withthem. My guardian did not seek to dissuade me, and I went.
It was a large prison with many courts and passages so like oneanother and so uniformly paved that I seemed to gain a newcomprehension, as I passed along, of the fondness that solitaryprisoners, shut up among the same staring walls from year to year,have had--as I have read--for a weed or a stray blade of grass. In anarched room by himself, like a cellar upstairs, with walls soglaringly white that they made the massive iron window-bars andiron-bound door even more profoundly black than they were, we foundthe trooper standing in a corner. He had been sitting on a benchthere and had risen when he heard the locks and bolts turn.
When he saw us, he came forward a step with his usual heavy tread,and there stopped and made a slight bow. But as I still advanced,putting out my hand to him, he understood us in a moment.
"This is a load off my mind, I do assure you, miss and gentlemen,"said he, saluting us with great heartiness and drawing a long breath."And now I don't so much care how it ends."
He scarcely seemed to be the prisoner. What with his coolness and hissoldierly bearing, he looked far more like the prison guard.
"This is even a rougher place than my gallery to receive a lady in,"said Mr. George, "but I know Miss Summerson will make the best ofit." As he handed me to the bench on which he had been sitting, I satdown, which seemed to give him great satisfaction.
"I thank you, miss," said he.
"Now, George," observed my guardian, "as we require no new assuranceson your part, so I believe we need give you none on ours."
"Not at all, sir. I thank you with all my heart. If I was notinnocent of this crime, I couldn't look at you and keep my secret tomyself under the condescension of the present visit. I feel thepresent visit very much. I am not one of the eloquent sort, but Ifeel it, Miss Summerson and gentlemen, deeply."
He laid his hand for a moment on his broad chest and bent his head tous. Although he squared himself again directly, he expressed a greatamount of natural emotion by these simple means.
"First," said my guardian, "can we do anything for your personalcomfort, George?"
"For which, sir?" he inquired, clearing his throat.
"For your personal comfort. Is there anything you want that wouldlessen the hardship of this confinement?"
"Well, sir," replied George, after a little cogitation, "I am equallyobliged to you, but tobacco being against the rules, I can't say thatthere is."
"You will think of many little things perhaps, by and by. Wheneveryou do, George, let us know."
"Thank you, sir. Howsoever," observed Mr. George with one of hissunburnt smiles, "a man who has been knocking about the world in avagabond kind of a way as long as I have gets on well enough in aplace like the present, so far as that goes."
"Next, as to your case," observed my guardian.
"Exactly so, sir," returned Mr. George, folding his arms upon hisbreast with perfect self-possession and a little curiosity.
"How does it stand now?"
"Why, sir, it is under remand at present. Bucket gives me tounderstand that he will probably apply for a series of remands fromtime to time until the case is more complete. How it is to be mademore complete I don't myself see, but I dare say Bucket will manageit somehow."
"Why, heaven save us, man," exclaimed my guardian, surprised into hisold oddity and vehemence, "you talk of yourself as if you weresomebody else!"
"No offence, sir," said Mr. George. "I am very sensible of yourkindness. But I don't see how an innocent man is to make up his mindto this kind of thing without knocking his head against the wallsunless he takes it in that point of view.
"That is true enough to a certain extent," returned my guardian,softened. "But my good fellow, even an innocent man must takeordinary precautions to defend himself."
"Certainly, sir. And I have done so. I have stated to themagistrates, 'Gentlemen, I am as innocent of this charge asyourselves; what has been stated against me in the way of facts isperfectly true; I know no more about it.' I intend to continuestating that, sir. What more can I do? It's the truth."
"But the mere truth won't do," rejoined my guardian.
"Won't it indeed, sir? Rather a bad look-out for me!" Mr. Georgegood-humouredly observed.
"You must have a lawyer," pursued my guardian. "We must engage a goodone for you."
"I ask your pardon, sir," said Mr. George with a step backward. "I amequally obliged. But I must decidedly beg to be excused from anythingof that sort."
"You won't have a lawyer?"
"No, sir." Mr. George shook his head in the most emphatic manner. "Ithank you all the same, sir, but--no lawyer!"
"Why not?"
"I don't take kindly to the breed," said Mr. George. "Gridley didn't.And--if you'll excuse my saying so much--I should hardly have thoughtyou did yourself, sir."
"That's equity," my guardian explained, a little at a loss; "that'sequity, George."
"Is it, indeed, sir?" returned the trooper in his off-hand manner. "Iam not acquainted with those shades of names myself, but in a generalway I object to the breed."
Unfolding his arms and changing his position, he stood with onemassive hand upon the table and the other on his hip, as complete apicture of a man who was not to be moved from a fixed purpose as everI saw. It was in vain that we all three talked to him and endeavouredto persuade him; he listened with that gentleness which went so wellwith his bluff bearing, but was evidently no more shaken by ourrepresentations that his place of confinement was.
"Pray think, once more, Mr. George," said I. "Have you no wish inreference to your case?"
"I certainly could wish it to be tried, miss," he returned, "bycourt-martial; but that is out of the question, as I am well aware.If you will be so good as to favour me with your attention for acouple of minutes, miss, not more, I'll endeavour to explain myselfas clearly as I can."
He looked at us all three in turn, shook his head a little as if hewere adjusting it in the stock and collar of a tight uniform, andafter a moment's reflection went on.
"You see, miss, I have been handcuffed and taken into custody andbrought here. I am a marked and disgraced man, and here I am. Myshooting gallery is rummaged, high and low, by Bucket; such propertyas I have--'tis small--is turned this way and that till it don't knowitself; and (as aforesaid) here I am! I don't particular complain ofthat. Though I am in these present quarters through no immediatelypreceding fault of mine, I can very well understand that if I hadn'tgone into the vagabond way in my youth, this wouldn't have happened.It HAS happened. Then comes the question how to meet it."
He rubbed his swarthy forehead for a moment with a good-humoured lookand said apologetically, "I am such a short-winded talker that I mustthink a bit." Having thought a bit, he looked up again and resumed.
"How to meet it. Now, the unfortunate deceased was himself a lawyerand had a pretty tight hold of me. I don't wish to rake up his ashes,but he had, what I should call if he was living, a devil of a tighthold of me. I don't like his trade the better for that. If I had keptclear of his trade, I should have kept outside this place. But that'snot what I mean. Now, suppose I had killed him. Suppose I really haddischarged into his body any one of those pistols recently fired offthat Bucket has found at my place, and dear me, might have foundthere any day since it has been my place. What should I have done assoon as I was hard and fast here? Got a lawyer."
He stopped on hearing some one at the locks and bolts and did notresume until the door had been opened and was shut again. For whatpurpose opened, I will mention presently.
"I should have got a lawyer, and he would have said (as I have oftenread in the newspapers), 'My client says nothing, my client reserveshis defence': my client this, that, and t'other. Well, 'tis not thecustom of that breed to go straight, according to my opinion, or tothink that other men do. Say I am innocent and I get a lawyer. Hewould be as likely to believe me guilty as not; perhaps more. Whatwould he do, whether or not? Act as if I was--shut my mouth up, tellme not to commit myself, keep circumstances back, chop the evidencesmall, quibble, and get me off perhaps! But, Miss Summerson, do Icare for getting off in that way; or would I rather be hanged in myown way--if you'll excuse my mentioning anything so disagreeable to alady?"
He had warmed into his subject now, and was under no furthernecessity to wait a bit.
"I would rather be hanged in my own way. And I mean to be! I don'tintend to say," looking round upon us with his powerful arms akimboand his dark eyebrows raised, "that I am more partial to being hangedthan another man. What I say is, I must come off clear and full ornot at all. Therefore, when I hear stated against me what is true, Isay it's true; and when they tell me, 'whatever you say will beused,' I tell them I don't mind that; I mean it to be used. If theycan't make me innocent out of the whole truth, they are not likely todo it out of anything less, or anything else. And if they are, it'sworth nothing to me."
Taking a pace or two over the stone floor, he came back to the tableand finished what he had to say.
"I thank you, miss and gentlemen both, many times for your attention,and many times more for your interest. That's the plain state of thematter as it points itself out to a mere trooper with a bluntbroadsword kind of a mind. I have never done well in life beyond myduty as a soldier, and if the worst comes after all, I shall reappretty much as I have sown. When I got over the first crash of beingseized as a murderer--it don't take a rover who has knocked about somuch as myself so very long to recover from a crash--I worked my wayround to what you find me now. As such I shall remain. No relationswill be disgraced by me or made unhappy for me, and--and that's allI've got to say."
The door had been opened to admit another soldier-looking man of lessprepossessing appearance at first sight and a weather-tanned,bright-eyed wholesome woman with a basket, who, from her entrance,had been exceedingly attentive to all Mr. George had said. Mr. Georgehad received them with a familiar nod and a friendly look, butwithout any more particular greeting in the midst of his address. Henow shook them cordially by the hand and said, "Miss Summerson andgentlemen, this is an old comrade of mine, Matthew Bagnet. And thisis his wife, Mrs. Bagnet."
Mr. Bagnet made us a stiff military bow, and Mrs. Bagnet dropped us acurtsy.
"Real good friends of mine, they are," sald Mr. George. "It was attheir house I was taken."
"With a second-hand wiolinceller," Mr. Bagnet put in, twitching hishead angrily. "Of a good tone. For a friend. That money was no objectto."
"Mat," said Mr. George, "you have heard pretty well all I have beensaying to this lady and these two gentlemen. I know it meets yourapproval?"
Mr. Bagnet, after considering, referred the point to his wife. "Oldgirl," said he. "Tell him. Whether or not. It meets my approval."
"Why, George," exclaimed Mrs. Bagnet, who had been unpacking herbasket, in which there was a piece of cold pickled pork, a little teaand sugar, and a brown loaf, "you ought to know it don't. You oughtto know it's enough to drive a person wild to hear you. You won't begot off this way, and you won't be got off that way--what do you meanby such picking and choosing? It's stuff and nonsense, George."
"Don't be severe upon me in my misfortunes, Mrs. Bagnet," said thetrooper lightly.
"Oh! Bother your misfortunes," cried Mrs. Bagnet, "if they don't makeyou more reasonable than that comes to. I never was so ashamed in mylife to hear a man talk folly as I have been to hear you talk thisday to the present company. Lawyers? Why, what but too many cooksshould hinder you from having a dozen lawyers if the gentlemanrecommended them to you."
"This is a very sensible woman," said my guardian. "I hope you willpersuade him, Mrs. Bagnet."
"Persuade him, sir?" she returned. "Lord bless you, no. You don'tknow George. Now, there!" Mrs. Bagnet left her basket to point himout with both her bare brown hands. "There he stands! As self-willedand as determined a man, in the wrong way, as ever put a humancreature under heaven out of patience! You could as soon take up andshoulder an eight and forty pounder by your own strength as turn thatman when he has got a thing into his head and fixed it there. Why,don't I know him!" cried Mrs. Bagnet. "Don't I know you, George! Youdon't mean to set up for a new character with ME after all theseyears, I hope?"
Her friendly indignation had an exemplary effect upon her husband,who shook his head at the trooper several times as a silentrecommendation to him to yield. Between whiles, Mrs. Bagnet looked atme; and I understood from the play of her eyes that she wished me todo something, though I did not comprehend what.
"But I have given up talking to you, old fellow, years and years,"said Mrs. Bagnet as she blew a little dust off the pickled pork,looking at me again; "and when ladies and gentlemen know you as wellas I do, they'll give up talking to you too. If you are not tooheadstrong to accept of a bit of dinner, here it is."
"I accept it with many thanks," returned the trooper.
"Do you though, indeed?" said Mrs. Bagnet, continuing to grumble ongood-humouredly. "I'm sure I'm surprised at that. I wonder you don'tstarve in your own way also. It would only be like you. Perhapsyou'll set your mind upon THAT next." Here she again looked at me,and I now perceived from her glances at the door and at me, by turns,that she wished us to retire and to await her following us outsidethe prison. Communicating this by similar means to my guardian andMr. Woodcourt, I rose.
"We hope you will think better of it, Mr. George," said I, "and weshall come to see you again, trusting to find you more reasonable."
"More grateful, Miss Summerson, you can't find me," he returned.
"But more persuadable we can, I hope," said I. "And let me entreatyou to consider that the clearing up of this mystery and thediscovery of the real perpetrator of this deed may be of the lastimportance to others besides yourself."
He heard me respectfully but without much heeding these words, whichI spoke a little turned from him, already on my way to the door; hewas observing (this they afterwards told me) my height and figure,which seemed to catch his attention all at once.
"'Tis curious," said he. "And yet I thought so at the time!"
My guardian asked him what he meant.
"Why, sir," he answered, "when my ill fortune took me to the deadman's staircase on the night of his murder, I saw a shape so likeMiss Summerson's go by me in the dark that I had half a mind to speakto it."
For an instant I felt such a shudder as I never felt before or sinceand hope I shall never feel again.
"It came downstairs as I went up," said the trooper, "and crossed themoonlighted window with a loose black mantle on; I noticed a deepfringe to it. However, it has nothing to do with the present subject,excepting that Miss Summerson looked so like it at the moment that itcame into my head."
I cannot separate and define the feelings that arose in me afterthis; it is enough that the vague duty and obligation I had felt uponme from the first of following the investigation was, without mydistinctly daring to ask myself any question, increased, and that Iwas indignantly sure of there being no possibility of a reason for mybeing afraid.
We three went out of the prison and walked up and down at some shortdistance from the gate, which was in a retired place. We had notwaited long when Mr. and Mrs. Bagnet came out too and quickly joinedus.
There was a tear in each of Mrs. Bagnet's eyes, and her face wasflushed and hurried. "I didn't let George see what I thought aboutit, you know, miss," was her first remark when she came up, "but he'sin a bad way, poor old fellow!"
"Not with care and prudence and good help," said my guardian.
"A gentleman like you ought to know best, sir," returned Mrs. Bagnet,hurriedly drying her eyes on the hem of her grey cloak, "but I amuneasy for him. He has been so careless and said so much that henever meant. The gentlemen of the juries might not understand him asLignum and me do. And then such a number of circumstances havehappened bad for him, and such a number of people will be broughtforward to speak against him, and Bucket is so deep."
"With a second-hand wiolinceller. And said he played the fife. When aboy," Mr. Bagnet added with great solemnity.
"Now, I tell you, miss," said Mrs. Bagnet; "and when I say miss, Imean all! Just come into the corner of the wall and I'll tell you!"
Mrs. Bagnet hurried us into a more secluded place and was at firsttoo breathless to proceed, occasioning Mr. Bagnet to say, "Old girl!Tell 'em!"
"Why, then, miss," the old girl proceeded, untying the strings of herbonnet for more air, "you could as soon move Dover Castle as moveGeorge on this point unless you had got a new power to move him with.And I have got it!"
"You are a jewel of a woman," said my guardian. "Go on!"
"Now, I tell you, miss," she proceeded, clapping her hands in herhurry and agitation a dozen times in every sentence, "that what hesays concerning no relations is all bosh. They don't know of him, buthe does know of them. He has said more to me at odd times than toanybody else, and it warn't for nothing that he once spoke to myWoolwich about whitening and wrinkling mothers' heads. For fiftypounds he had seen his mother that day. She's alive and must bebrought here straight!"
Instantly Mrs. Bagnet put some pins into her mouth and began pinningup her skirts all round a little higher than the level of her greycloak, which she accomplished with surpassing dispatch and dexterity.
"Lignum," said Mrs. Bagnet, "you take care of the children, old man,and give me the umbrella! I'm away to Lincolnshire to bring that oldlady here."
"But, bless the woman," cried my guardian with his hand in hispocket, "how is she going? What money has she got?"
Mrs. Bagnet made another application to her skirts and brought fortha leathern purse in which she hastily counted over a few shillingsand which she then shut up with perfect satisfaction.
"Never you mind for me, miss. I'm a soldier's wife and accustomed totravel my own way. Lignum, old boy," kissing him, "one for yourself,three for the children. Now I'm away into Lincolnshire after George'smother!"
And she actually set off while we three stood looking at one anotherlost in amazement. She actually trudged away in her grey cloak at asturdy pace, and turned the corner, and was gone.
"Mr. Bagnet," said my guardian. "Do you mean to let her go in thatway?"
"Can't help it," he returned. "Made her way home once from anotherquarter of the world. With the same grey cloak. And same umbrella.Whatever the old girl says, do. Do it! Whenever the old girl says,I'LL do it. She does it."
"Then she is as honest and genuine as she looks," rejoined myguardian, "and it is impossible to say more for her."
"She's Colour-Sergeant of the Nonpareil battalion," said Mr. Bagnet,looking at us over his shoulder as he went his way also. "And there'snot such another. But I never own to it before her. Discipline mustbe maintained."



CHAPTER LIII
The Track

Mr. Bucket and his fat forefinger are much in consultation togetherunder existing circumstances. When Mr. Bucket has a matter of thispressing interest under his consideration, the fat forefinger seemsto rise, to the dignity of a familiar demon. He puts it to his ears,and it whispers information; he puts it to his lips, and it enjoinshim to secrecy; he rubs it over his nose, and it sharpens his scent;he shakes it before a guilty man, and it charms him to hisdestruction. The Augurs of the Detective Temple invariably predictthat when Mr. Bucket and that finger are in much conference, aterrible avenger will be heard of before long.
Otherwise mildly studious in his observation of human nature, on thewhole a benignant philosopher not disposed to be severe upon thefollies of mankind, Mr. Bucket pervades a vast number of houses andstrolls about an infinity of streets, to outward appearance ratherlanguishing for want of an object. He is in the friendliest conditiontowards his species and will drink with most of them. He is free withhis money, affable in his manners, innocent in his conversation--butthrough the placid stream of his life there glides an under-currentof forefinger.
Time and place cannot bind Mr. Bucket. Like man in the abstract, heis here to-day and gone to-morrow--but, very unlike man indeed, he ishere again the next day. This evening he will be casually lookinginto the iron extinguishers at the door of Sir Leicester Dedlock'shouse in town; and to-morrow morning he will be walking on the leadsat Chesney Wold, where erst the old man walked whose ghost ispropitiated with a hundred guineas. Drawers, desks, pockets, allthings belonging to him, Mr. Bucket examines. A few hours afterwards,he and the Roman will be alone together comparing forefingers.
It is likely that these occupations are irreconcilable with homeenjoyment, but it is certain that Mr. Bucket at present does not gohome. Though in general he highly appreciates the society of Mrs.Bucket--a lady of a natural detective genius, which if it had beenimproved by professional exercise, might have done great things, butwhich has paused at the level of a clever amateur--he holds himselfaloof from that dear solace. Mrs. Bucket is dependent on their lodger(fortunately an amiable lady in whom she takes an interest) forcompanionship and conversation.
A great crowd assembles in Lincoln's Inn Fields on the day of thefuneral. Sir Leicester Dedlock attends the ceremony in person;strictly speaking, there are only three other human followers, thatis to say, Lord Doodle, William Buffy, and the debilitated cousin(thrown in as a make-weight), but the amount of inconsolablecarriages is immense. The peerage contributes more four-wheeledaffliction than has ever been seen in that neighbourhood. Such is theassemblage of armorial bearings on coach panels that the Herald'sCollege might be supposed to have lost its father and mother at ablow. The Duke of Foodle sends a splendid pile of dust and ashes,with silver wheel-boxes, patent axles, all the last improvements, andthree bereaved worms, six feet high, holding on behind, in a bunch ofwoe. All the state coachmen in London seem plunged into mourning; andif that dead old man of the rusty garb be not beyond a taste inhorseflesh (which appears impossible), it must be highly gratifiedthis day.
Quiet among the undertakers and the equipages and the calves of somany legs all steeped in grief, Mr. Bucket sits concealed in one ofthe inconsolable carriages and at his ease surveys the crowd throughthe lattice blinds. He has a keen eye for a crowd--as for whatnot?--and looking here and there, now from this side of the carriage,now from the other, now up at the house windows, now along thepeople's heads, nothing escapes him.
"And there you are, my partner, eh?" says Mr. Bucket to himself,apostrophizing Mrs. Bucket, stationed, by his favour, on the steps ofthe deceased's house. "And so you are. And so you are! And very wellindeed you are looking, Mrs. Bucket!"
The procession has not started yet, but is waiting for the cause ofits assemblage to be brought out. Mr. Bucket, in the foremostemblazoned carriage, uses his two fat forefingers to hold the latticea hair's breadth open while he looks.
And it says a great deal for his attachment, as a husband, that he isstill occupied with Mrs. B. "There you are, my partner, eh?" hemurmuringly repeats. "And our lodger with you. I'm taking notice ofyou, Mrs. Bucket; I hope you're all right in your health, my dear!"
Not another word does Mr. Bucket say, but sits with most attentiveeyes until the sacked depository of noble secrets is broughtdown--Where are all those secrets now? Does he keep them yet? Didthey fly with him on that sudden journey?--and until the processionmoves, and Mr. Bucket's view is changed. After which he composeshimself for an easy ride and takes note of the fittings of thecarriage in case he should ever find such knowledge useful.
Contrast enough between Mr. Tulkinghorn shut up in his dark carriageand Mr. Bucket shut up in HIS. Between the immeasurable track ofspace beyond the little wound that has thrown the one into the fixedsleep which jolts so heavily over the stones of the streets, and thenarrow track of blood which keeps the other in the watchful stateexpressed in every hair of his head! But it is all one to both;neither is troubled about that.
Mr. Bucket sits out the procession in his own easy manner and glidesfrom the carriage when the opportunity he has settled with himselfarrives. He makes for Sir Leicester Dedlock's, which is at present asort of home to him, where he comes and goes as he likes at allhours, where he is always welcome and made much of, where he knowsthe whole establishment, and walks in an atmosphere of mysteriousgreatness.
No knocking or ringing for Mr. Bucket. He has caused himself to beprovided with a key and can pass in at his pleasure. As he iscrossing the hall, Mercury informs him, "Here's another letter foryou, Mr. Bucket, come by post," and gives it him.
"Another one, eh?" says Mr. Bucket.
If Mercury should chance to be possessed by any lingering curiosityas to Mr. Bucket's letters, that wary person is not the man togratify it. Mr. Bucket looks at him as if his face were a vista ofsome miles in length and he were leisurely contemplating the same.
"Do you happen to carry a box?" says Mr. Bucket.
Unfortunately Mercury is no snuff-taker.
"Could you fetch me a pinch from anywheres?" says Mr. Bucket."Thankee. It don't matter what it is; I'm not particular as to thekind. Thankee!"
Having leisurely helped himself from a canister borrowed fromsomebody downstairs for the purpose, and having made a considerableshow of tasting it, first with one side of his nose and then with theother, Mr. Bucket, with much deliberation, pronounces it of the rightsort and goes on, letter in hand.
Now although Mr. Bucket walks upstairs to the little library withinthe larger one with the face of a man who receives some scores ofletters every day, it happens that much correspondence is notincidental to his life. He is no great scribe, rather handling hispen like the pocket-staff he carries about with him always convenientto his grasp, and discourages correspondence with himself in othersas being too artless and direct a way of doing delicate business.Further, he often sees damaging letters produced in evidence and hasoccasion to reflect that it was a green thing to write them. Forthese reasons he has very little to do with letters, either as senderor receiver. And yet he has received a round half-dozen within thelast twenty-four hours.
"And this," says Mr. Bucket, spreading it out on the table, "is inthe same hand, and consists of the same two words."
What two words?
He turns the key in the door, ungirdles his black pocket-book (bookof fate to many), lays another letter by it, and reads, boldlywritten in each, "Lady Dedlock."
"Yes, yes," says Mr. Bucket. "But I could have made the money withoutthis anonymous information."
Having put the letters in his book of fate and girdled it up again,he unlocks the door just in time to admit his dinner, which isbrought upon a goodly tray with a decanter of sherry. Mr. Bucketfrequently observes, in friendly circles where there is no restraint,that he likes a toothful of your fine old brown East Inder sherrybetter than anything you can offer him. Consequently he fills andempties his glass with a smack of his lips and is proceeding with hisrefreshment when an idea enters his mind.
Mr. Bucket softly opens the door of communication between that roomand the next and looks in. The library is deserted, and the fire issinking low. Mr. Bucket's eye, after taking a pigeon-flight round theroom, alights upon a table where letters are usually put as theyarrive. Several letters for Sir Leicester are upon it. Mr. Bucketdraws near and examines the directions. "No," he says, "there's nonein that hand. It's only me as is written to. I can break it to SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, to-morrow."
With that he returns to finish his dinner with a good appetite, andafter a light nap, is summoned into the drawing-room. Sir Leicesterhas received him there these several evenings past to know whether hehas anything to report. The debilitated cousin (much exhausted by thefuneral) and Volumnia are in attendance.
Mr. Bucket makes three distinctly different bows to these threepeople. A bow of homage to Sir Leicester, a bow of gallantry toVolumnia, and a bow of recognition to the debilitated Cousin, to whomit airily says, "You are a swell about town, and you know me, and Iknow you." Having distributed these little specimens of his tact, Mr.Bucket rubs his hands.
"Have you anything new to communicate, officer?" inquires SirLeicester. "Do you wish to hold any conversation with me in private?"
"Why--not to-night, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet."
"Because my time," pursues Sir Leicester, "is wholly at your disposalwith a view to the vindication of the outraged majesty of the law."
Mr. Bucket coughs and glances at Volumnia, rouged and necklaced, asthough he would respectfully observe, "I do assure you, you're apretty creetur. I've seen hundreds worse looking at your time oflife, I have indeed."
The fair Volumnia, not quite unconscious perhaps of the humanizinginfluence of her charms, pauses in the writing of cocked-hat notesand meditatively adjusts the pearl necklace. Mr. Bucket prices thatdecoration in his mind and thinks it as likely as not that Volumniais writing poetry.
"If I have not," pursues Sir Leicester, "in the most emphatic manner,adjured you, officer, to exercise your utmost skill in this atrociouscase, I particularly desire to take the present opportunity ofrectifying any omission I may have made. Let no expense be aconsideration. I am prepared to defray all charges. You can incurnone in pursuit of the object you have undertaken that I shallhesitate for a moment to bear."
Mr. Bucket made Sir Leicester's bow again as a response to thisliberality.
"My mind," Sir Leicester adds with a generous warmth, "has not, asmay be easily supposed, recovered its tone since the late diabolicaloccurrence. It is not likely ever to recover its tone. But it is fullof indignation to-night after undergoing the ordeal of consigning tothe tomb the remains of a faithful, a zealous, a devoted adherent."
Sir Leicester's voice trembles and his grey hair stirs upon his head.Tears are in his eyes; the best part of his nature is aroused.
"I declare," he says, "I solemnly declare that until this crime isdiscovered and, in the course of justice, punished, I almost feel asif there were a stain upon my name. A gentleman who has devoted alarge portion of his life to me, a gentleman who has devoted the lastday of his life to me, a gentleman who has constantly sat at my tableand slept under my roof, goes from my house to his own, and is struckdown within an hour of his leaving my house. I cannot say but that hemay have been followed from my house, watched at my house, even firstmarked because of his association with my house--which may havesuggested his possessing greater wealth and being altogether ofgreater importance than his own retiring demeanour would haveindicated. If I cannot with my means and influence and my positionbring all the perpetrators of such a crime to light, I fail in theassertion of my respect for that gentleman's memory and of myfidelity towards one who was ever faithful to me."
While he makes this protestation with great emotion and earnestness,looking round the room as if he were addressing an assembly, Mr.Bucket glances at him with an observant gravity in which there mightbe, but for the audacity of the thought, a touch of compassion.
"The ceremony of to-day," continues Sir Leicester, "strikinglyillustrative of the respect in which my deceased friend"--he lays astress upon the word, for death levels all distinctions--"was held bythe flower of the land, has, I say, aggravated the shock I havereceived from this most horrible and audacious crime. If it were mybrother who had committed it, I would not spare him."
Mr. Bucket looks very grave. Volumnia remarks of the deceased that hewas the trustiest and dearest person!
"You must feel it as a deprivation to you, miss," replies Mr. Bucketsoothingly, "no doubt. He was calculated to BE a deprivation, I'msure he was."
Volumnia gives Mr. Bucket to understand, in reply, that her sensitivemind is fully made up never to get the better of it as long as shelives, that her nerves are unstrung for ever, and that she has notthe least expectation of ever smiling again. Meanwhile she folds up acocked hat for that redoubtable old general at Bath, descriptive ofher melancholy condition.
"It gives a start to a delicate female," says Mr. Bucketsympathetically, "but it'll wear off."
Volumnia wishes of all things to know what is doing? Whether they aregoing to convict, or whatever it is, that dreadful soldier? Whetherhe had any accomplices, or whatever the thing is called in the law?And a great deal more to the like artless purpose.
"Why you see, miss," returns Mr. Bucket, bringing the finger intopersuasive action--and such is his natural gallantry that he hadalmost said "my dear"--"it ain't easy to answer those questions atthe present moment. Not at the present moment. I've kept myself onthis case, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," whom Mr. Bucket takesinto the conversation in right of his importance, "morning, noon, andnight. But for a glass or two of sherry, I don't think I could havehad my mind so much upon the stretch as it has been. I COULD answeryour questions, miss, but duty forbids it. Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet, will very soon be made acquainted with all that has beentraced. And I hope that he may find it"--Mr. Bucket again looksgrave--"to his satisfaction."
The debilitated cousin only hopes some fler'll be executed--zample.Thinks more interest's wanted--get man hanged presentime--than getman place ten thousand a year. Hasn't a doubt--zample--far betterhang wrong fler than no fler.
"YOU know life, you know, sir," says Mr. Bucket with a complimentarytwinkle of his eye and crook of his finger, "and you can confirm whatI've mentioned to this lady. YOU don't want to be told that frominformation I have received I have gone to work. You're up to what alady can't be expected to be up to. Lord! Especially in your elevatedstation of society, miss," says Mr. Bucket, quite reddening atanother narrow escape from "my dear."
"The officer, Volumnia," observes Sir Leicester, "is faithful to hisduty, and perfectly right."
Mr. Bucket murmurs, "Glad to have the honour of your approbation, SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet."
"In fact, Volumnia," proceeds Sir Leicester, "it is not holding up agood model for imitation to ask the officer any such questions as youhave put to him. He is the best judge of his own responsibility; heacts upon his responsibility. And it does not become us, who assistin making the laws, to impede or interfere with those who carry theminto execution. Or," says Sir Leicester somewhat sternly, forVolumnia was going to cut in before he had rounded his sentence, "orwho vindicate their outraged majesty."
Volumnia with all humility explains that she had not merely the pleaof curiosity to urge (in common with the giddy youth of her sex ingeneral) but that she is perfectly dying with regret and interest forthe darling man whose loss they all deplore.
"Very well, Volumnia," returns Sir Leicester. "Then you cannot be toodiscreet."
Mr. Bucket takes the opportunity of a pause to be heard again.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I have no objections to telling thislady, with your leave and among ourselves, that I look upon the caseas pretty well complete. It is a beautiful case--a beautifulcase--and what little is wanting to complete it, I expect to be ableto supply in a few hours."
"I am very glad indeed to hear it," says Sir Leicester. "Highlycreditable to you."
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," returns Mr. Bucket very seriously,"I hope it may at one and the same time do me credit and provesatisfactory to all. When I depict it as a beautiful case, you see,miss," Mr. Bucket goes on, glancing gravely at Sir Leicester, "I meanfrom my point of view. As considered from other points of view, suchcases will always involve more or less unpleasantness. Very strangethings comes to our knowledge in families, miss; bless your heart,what you would think to be phenomenons, quite."
Volumnia, with her innocent little scream, supposes so.
"Aye, and even in gen-teel families, in high families, in greatfamilies," says Mr. Bucket, again gravely eyeing Sir Leicester aside."I have had the honour of being employed in high families before, andyou have no idea--come, I'll go so far as to say not even YOU haveany idea, sir," this to the debilitated cousin, "what games goes on!"
The cousin, who has been casting sofa-pillows on his head, in aprostration of boredom yawns, "Vayli," being the used-up for "verylikely."
Sir Leicester, deeming it time to dismiss the officer, heremajestically interposes with the words, "Very good. Thank you!" andalso with a wave of his hand, implying not only that there is an endof the discourse, but that if high families fall into low habits theymust take the consequences. "You will not forget, officer," he addswith condescension, "that I am at your disposal when you please."
Mr. Bucket (still grave) inquires if to-morrow morning, now, wouldsuit, in case he should be as for'ard as he expects to be. SirLeicester replies, "All times are alike to me." Mr. Bucket makes histhree bows and is withdrawing when a forgotten point occurs to him.
"Might I ask, by the by," he says in a low voice, cautiouslyreturning, "who posted the reward-bill on the staircase."
"I ordered it to be put up there," replies Sir Leicester.
"Would it be considered a liberty, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, ifI was to ask you why?"
"Not at all. I chose it as a conspicuous part of the house. I thinkit cannot be too prominently kept before the whole establishment. Iwish my people to be impressed with the enormity of the crime, thedetermination to punish it, and the hopelessness of escape. At thesame time, officer, if you in your better knowledge of the subjectsee any objection--"
Mr. Bucket sees none now; the bill having been put up, had better notbe taken down. Repeating his three bows he withdraws, closing thedoor on Volumnia's little scream, which is a preliminary to herremarking that that charmingly horrible person is a perfect BlueChamber.
In his fondness for society and his adaptability to all grades, Mr.Bucket is presently standing before the hall-fire--bright and warm onthe early winter night--admiring Mercury.
"Why, you're six foot two, I suppose?" says Mr. Bucket.
"Three," says Mercury.
"Are you so much? But then, you see, you're broad in proportion anddon't look it. You're not one of the weak-legged ones, you ain't. Wasyou ever modelled now?" Mr. Bucket asks, conveying the expression ofan artist into the turn of his eye and head.
Mercury never was modelled.
"Then you ought to be, you know," says Mr. Bucket; "and a friend ofmine that you'll hear of one day as a Royal Academy sculptor wouldstand something handsome to make a drawing of your proportions forthe marble. My Lady's out, ain't she?"
"Out to dinner."
"Goes out pretty well every day, don't she?"
"Yes."
"Not to be wondered at!" says Mr. Bucket. "Such a fine woman as her,so handsome and so graceful and so elegant, is like a fresh lemon ona dinner-table, ornamental wherever she goes. Was your father in thesame way of life as yourself?"
Answer in the negative.
"Mine was," says Mr. Bucket. "My father was first a page, then afootman, then a butler, then a steward, then an inn-keeper. Liveduniversally respected, and died lamented. Said with his last breaththat he considered service the most honourable part of his career,and so it was. I've a brother in service, AND a brother-in-law. MyLady a good temper?"
Mercury replies, "As good as you can expect."
"Ah!" says Mr. Bucket. "A little spoilt? A little capricious? Lord!What can you anticipate when they're so handsome as that? And we like'em all the better for it, don't we?"
Mercury, with his hands in the pockets of his bright peach-blossomsmall-clothes, stretches his symmetrical silk legs with the air of aman of gallantry and can't deny it. Come the roll of wheels and aviolent ringing at the bell. "Talk of the angels," says Mr. Bucket."Here she is!"
The doors are thrown open, and she passes through the hall. Stillvery pale, she is dressed in slight mourning and wears two beautifulbracelets. Either their beauty or the beauty of her arms isparticularly attractive to Mr. Bucket. He looks at them with an eagereye and rattles something in his pocket--halfpence perhaps.
Noticing him at his distance, she turns an inquiring look on theother Mercury who has brought her home.
"Mr. Bucket, my Lady."
Mr. Bucket makes a leg and comes forward, passing his familiar demonover the region of his mouth.
"Are you waiting to see Sir Leicester?"
"No, my Lady, I've seen him!"
"Have you anything to say to me?"
"Not just at present, my Lady."
"Have you made any new discoveries?"
"A few, my Lady."
This is merely in passing. She scarcely makes a stop, and sweepsupstairs alone. Mr. Bucket, moving towards the staircase-foot,watches her as she goes up the steps the old man came down to hisgrave, past murderous groups of statuary repeated with their shadowyweapons on the wall, past the printed bill, which she looks at goingby, out of view.
"She's a lovely woman, too, she really is," says Mr. Bucket, comingback to Mercury. "Don't look quite healthy though."
Is not quite healthy, Mercury informs him. Suffers much fromheadaches.
Really? That's a pity! Walking, Mr. Bucket would recommend for that.Well, she tries walking, Mercury rejoins. Walks sometimes for twohours when she has them bad. By night, too.
"Are you sure you're quite so much as six foot three?" asks Mr.Bucket. "Begging your pardon for interrupting you a moment?"
Not a doubt about it.
"You're so well put together that I shouldn't have thought it. Butthe household troops, though considered fine men, are built sostraggling. Walks by night, does she? When it's moonlight, though?"
Oh, yes. When it's moonlight! Of course. Oh, of course!Conversational and acquiescent on both sides.
"I suppose you ain't in the habit of walking yourself?" says Mr.Bucket. "Not much time for it, I should say?"
Besides which, Mercury don't like it. Prefers carriage exercise.
"To be sure," says Mr. Bucket. "That makes a difference. Now I thinkof it," says Mr. Bucket, warming his hands and looking pleasantly atthe blaze, "she went out walking the very night of this business."
"To be sure she did! I let her into the garden over the way."
"And left her there. Certainly you did. I saw you doing it."
"I didn't see YOU," says Mercury.
"I was rather in a hurry," returns Mr. Bucket, "for I was going tovisit a aunt of mine that lives at Chelsea--next door but two to theold original Bun House--ninety year old the old lady is, a singlewoman, and got a little property. Yes, I chanced to be passing at thetime. Let's see. What time might it be? It wasn't ten."
"Half-past nine."
"You're right. So it was. And if I don't deceive myself, my Lady wasmuffled in a loose black mantle, with a deep fringe to it?"
"Of course she was."
Of course she was. Mr. Bucket must return to a little work he has toget on with upstairs, but he must shake hands with Mercury inacknowledgment of his agreeable conversation, and will he--this isall he asks--will he, when he has a leisure half-hour, think ofbestowing it on that Royal Academy sculptor, for the advantage ofboth parties?



CHAPTER LIV
Springing a Mine

Refreshed by sleep, Mr. Bucket rises betimes in the morning andprepares for a field-day. Smartened up by the aid of a clean shirtand a wet hairbrush, with which instrument, on occasions of ceremony,he lubricates such thin locks as remain to him after his life ofsevere study, Mr. Bucket lays in a breakfast of two mutton chops as afoundation to work upon, together with tea, eggs, toast, andmarmalade on a corresponding scale. Having much enjoyed thesestrengthening matters and having held subtle conference with hisfamiliar demon, he confidently instructs Mercury "just to mentionquietly to Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, that whenever he's readyfor me, I'm ready for him." A gracious message being returned thatSir Leicester will expedite his dressing and join Mr. Bucket in thelibrary within ten minutes, Mr. Bucket repairs to that apartment andstands before the fire with his finger on his chin, looking at theblazing coals.
Thoughtful Mr. Bucket is, as a man may be with weighty work to do,but composed, sure, confident. From the expression of his face hemight be a famous whist-player for a large stake--say a hundredguineas certain--with the game in his hand, but with a highreputation involved in his playing his hand out to the last card in amasterly way. Not in the least anxious or disturbed is Mr. Bucketwhen Sir Leicester appears, but he eyes the baronet aside as he comesslowly to his easy-chair with that observant gravity of yesterday inwhich there might have been yesterday, but for the audacity of theidea, a touch of compassion.
"I am sorry to have kept you waiting, officer, but I am rather laterthan my usual hour this morning. I am not well. The agitation and theindignation from which I have recently suffered have been too muchfor me. I am subject to--gout"--Sir Leicester was going to sayindisposition and would have said it to anybody else, but Mr. Bucketpalpably knows all about it--"and recent circumstances have broughtit on."
As he takes his seat with some difficulty and with an air of pain,Mr. Bucket draws a little nearer, standing with one of his largehands on the library-table.
"I am not aware, officer," Sir Leicester observes; raising his eyesto his face, "whether you wish us to be alone, but that is entirelyas you please. If you do, well and good. If not, Miss Dedlock wouldbe interested--"
"Why, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," returns Mr. Bucket with hishead persuasively on one side and his forefinger pendant at one earlike an earring, "we can't be too private just at present. You willpresently see that we can't be too private. A lady, under thecircumstances, and especially in Miss Dedlock's elevated station ofsociety, can't but be agreeable to me, but speaking without a view tomyself, I will take the liberty of assuring you that I know we can'tbe too private."
"That is enough."
"So much so, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," Mr. Bucket resumes,"that I was on the point of asking your permission to turn the key inthe door."
"By all means." Mr. Bucket skilfully and softly takes thatprecaution, stooping on his knee for a moment from mere force ofhabit so to adjust the key in the lock as that no one shall peep infrom the outerside.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I mentioned yesterday evening that Iwanted but a very little to complete this case. I have now completedit and collected proof against the person who did this crime."
"Against the soldier?"
"No, Sir Leicester Dedlock; not the soldier."
Sir Leicester looks astounded and inquires, "Is the man in custody?"
Mr. Bucket tells him, after a pause, "It was a woman."
Sir Leicester leans back in his chair, and breathlessly ejaculates,"Good heaven!"
"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," Mr. Bucket begins, standingover him with one hand spread out on the library-table and theforefinger of the other in impressive use, "it's my duty to prepareyou for a train of circumstances that may, and I go so far as to saythat will, give you a shock. But Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, youare a gentleman, and I know what a gentleman is and what a gentlemanis capable of. A gentleman can bear a shock when it must come, boldlyand steadily. A gentleman can make up his mind to stand up againstalmost any blow. Why, take yourself, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.If there's a blow to be inflicted on you, you naturally think of yourfamily. You ask yourself, how would all them ancestors of yours, awayto Julius Caesar--not to go beyond him at present--have borne thatblow; you remember scores of them that would have borne it well; andyou bear it well on their accounts, and to maintain the familycredit. That's the way you argue, and that's the way you act, SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet."
Sir Leicester, leaning back in his chair and grasping the elbows,sits looking at him with a stony face.
"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock," proceeds Mr. Bucket, "thus preparingyou, let me beg of you not to trouble your mind for a moment as toanything having come to MY knowledge. I know so much about so manycharacters, high and low, that a piece of information more or lessdon't signify a straw. I don't suppose there's a move on the boardthat would surprise ME, and as to this or that move having takenplace, why my knowing it is no odds at all, any possible movewhatever (provided it's in a wrong direction) being a probable moveaccording to my experience. Therefore, what I say to you, SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, is, don't you go and let yourself be putout of the way because of my knowing anything of your familyaffairs."
"I thank you for your preparation," returns Sir Leicester after asilence, without moving hand, foot, or feature, "which I hope is notnecessary; though I give it credit for being well intended. Be sogood as to go on. Also"--Sir Leicester seems to shrink in the shadowof his figure--"also, to take a seat, if you have no objection."
None at all. Mr. Bucket brings a chair and diminishes his shadow."Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, with this short preface I cometo the point. Lady Dedlock--"
Sir Leicester raises himself in his seat and stares at him fiercely.Mr. Bucket brings the finger into play as an emollient.
"Lady Dedlock, you see she's universally admired. That's what herladyship is; she's universally admired," says Mr. Bucket.
"I would greatly prefer, officer," Sir Leicester returns stiffly, "myLady's name being entirely omitted from this discussion."
"So would I, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, but--it's impossible."
"Impossible?"
Mr. Bucket shakes his relentless head.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it's altogether impossible. What Ihave got to say is about her ladyship. She is the pivot it all turnson."
"Officer," retorts Sir Leicester with a fiery eye and a quiveringlip, "you know your duty. Do your duty, but be careful not tooverstep it. I would not suffer it. I would not endure it. You bringmy Lady's name into this communication upon your responsibility--uponyour responsibility. My Lady's name is not a name for common personsto trifle with!"
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I say what I must say, and no more."
"I hope it may prove so. Very well. Go on. Go on, sir!" Glancing atthe angry eyes which now avoid him and at the angry figure tremblingfrom head to foot, yet striving to be still, Mr. Bucket feels his waywith his forefinger and in a low voice proceeds.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it becomes my duty to tell you thatthe deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn long entertained mistrusts andsuspicions of Lady Dedlock."
"If he had dared to breathe them to me, sir--which he never did--Iwould have killed him myself!" exclaims Sir Leicester, striking hishand upon the table. But in the very heat and fury of the act hestops, fixed by the knowing eyes of Mr. Bucket, whose forefinger isslowly going and who, with mingled confidence and patience, shakeshis head.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn was deep andclose, and what he fully had in his mind in the very beginning Ican't quite take upon myself to say. But I know from his lips that helong ago suspected Lady Dedlock of having discovered, through thesight of some handwriting--in this very house, and when you yourself,Sir Leicester Dedlock, were present--the existence, in great poverty,of a certain person who had been her lover before you courted her andwho ought to have been her husband." Mr. Bucket stops anddeliberately repeats, "Ought to have been her husband, not a doubtabout it. I know from his lips that when that person soon afterwardsdied, he suspected Lady Dedlock of visiting his wretched lodging andhis wretched grave, alone and in secret. I know from my own inquiriesand through my eyes and ears that Lady Dedlock did make such visit inthe dress of her own maid, for the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn employedme to reckon up her ladyship--if you'll excuse my making use of theterm we commonly employ--and I reckoned her up, so far, completely. Iconfronted the maid in the chambers in Lincoln's Inn Fields with awitness who had been Lady Dedlock's guide, and there couldn't be theshadow of a doubt that she had worn the young woman's dress, unknownto her. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I did endeavour to pave theway a little towards these unpleasant disclosures yesterday by sayingthat very strange things happened even in high families sometimes.All this, and more, has happened in your own family, and to andthrough your own Lady. It's my belief that the deceased Mr.Tulkinghorn followed up these inquiries to the hour of his death andthat he and Lady Dedlock even had bad blood between them upon thematter that very night. Now, only you put that to Lady Dedlock, SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, and ask her ladyship whether, even afterhe had left here, she didn't go down to his chambers with theintention of saying something further to him, dressed in a looseblack mantle with a deep fringe to it."
Sir Leicester sits like a statue, gazing at the cruel finger that isprobing the life-blood of his heart.
"You put that to her ladyship, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, fromme, Inspector Bucket of the Detective. And if her ladyship makes anydifficulty about admitting of it, you tell her that it's no use, thatInspector Bucket knows it and knows that she passed the soldier asyou called him (though he's not in the army now) and knows that sheknows she passed him on the staircase. Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet, why do I relate all this?"
Sir Leicester, who has covered his face with his hands, uttering asingle groan, requests him to pause for a moment. By and by he takeshis hands away, and so preserves his dignity and outward calmness,though there is no more colour in his face than in his white hair,that Mr. Bucket is a little awed by him. Something frozen and fixedis upon his manner, over and above its usual shell of haughtiness,and Mr. Bucket soon detects an unusual slowness in his speech, withnow and then a curious trouble in beginning, which occasions him toutter inarticulate sounds. With such sounds he now breaks silence,soon, however, controlling himself to say that he does not comprehendwhy a gentleman so faithful and zealous as the late Mr. Tulkinghornshould have communicated to him nothing of this painful, thisdistressing, this unlooked-for, this overwhelming, this incredibleintelligence.
"Again, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," returns Mr. Bucket, "put itto her ladyship to clear that up. Put it to her ladyship, if youthink it right, from Inspector Bucket of the Detective. You'll find,or I'm much mistaken, that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn had theintention of communicating the whole to you as soon as he consideredit ripe, and further, that he had given her ladyship so tounderstand. Why, he might have been going to reveal it the verymorning when I examined the body! You don't know what I'm going tosay and do five minutes from this present time, Sir LeicesterDedlock, Baronet; and supposing I was to be picked off now, you mightwonder why I hadn't done it, don't you see?"
True. Sir Leicester, avoiding, with some trouble those obtrusivesounds, says, "True." At this juncture a considerable noise of voicesis heard in the hall. Mr. Bucket, after listening, goes to thelibrary-door, softly unlocks and opens it, and listens again. Then hedraws in his head and whispers hurriedly but composedly, "SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, this unfortunate family affair has takenair, as I expected it might, the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn being cutdown so sudden. The chance to hush it is to let in these people nowin a wrangle with your footmen. Would you mind sitting quiet--on thefamily account--while I reckon 'em up? And would you just throw in anod when I seem to ask you for it?"
Sir Leicester indistinctly answers, "Officer. The best you can, thebest you can!" and Mr. Bucket, with a nod and a sagacious crook ofthe forefinger, slips down into the hall, where the voices quicklydie away. He is not long in returning; a few paces ahead of Mercuryand a brother deity also powdered and in peach-blossomed smalls, whobear between them a chair in which is an incapable old man. Anotherman and two women come behind. Directing the pitching of the chair inan affable and easy manner, Mr. Bucket dismisses the Mercuries andlocks the door again. Sir Leicester looks on at this invasion of thesacred precincts with an icy stare.
"Now, perhaps you may know me, ladies and gentlemen," says Mr. Bucketin a confidential voice. "I am Inspector Bucket of the Detective, Iam; and this," producing the tip of his convenient little staff fromhis breast-pocket, "is my authority. Now, you wanted to see SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet. Well! You do see him, and mind you, itain't every one as is admitted to that honour. Your name, oldgentleman, is Smallweed; that's what your name is; I know it well."
"Well, and you never heard any harm of it!" cries Mr. Smallweed in ashrill loud voice.
"You don't happen to know why they killed the pig, do you?" retortsMr. Bucket with a steadfast look, but without loss of temper.
"No!"
"Why, they killed him," says Mr. Bucket, "on account of his having somuch cheek. Don't YOU get into the same position, because it isn'tworthy of you. You ain't in the habit of conversing with a deafperson, are you?"
"Yes," snarls Mr. Smallweed, "my wife's deaf."
"That accounts for your pitching your voice so high. But as she ain'there; just pitch it an octave or two lower, will you, and I'll notonly be obliged to you, but it'll do you more credit," says Mr.Bucket. "This other gentleman is in the preaching line, I think?"
"Name of Chadband," Mr. Smallweed puts in, speaking henceforth in amuch lower key.
"Once had a friend and brother serjeant of the same name," says Mr.Bucket, offering his hand, "and consequently feel a liking for it.Mrs. Chadband, no doubt?"
"And Mrs. Snagsby," Mr. Smallweed introduces.
"Husband a law-stationer and a friend of my own," says Mr. Bucket."Love him like a brother! Now, what's up?"
"Do you mean what business have we come upon?" Mr. Smallweed asks, alittle dashed by the suddenness of this turn.
"Ah! You know what I mean. Let us hear what it's all about inpresence of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Come."
Mr. Smallweed, beckoning Mr. Chadband, takes a moment's counsel withhim in a whisper. Mr. Chadband, expressing a considerable amount ofoil from the pores of his forehead and the palms of his hands, saysaloud, "Yes. You first!" and retires to his former place.
"I was the client and friend of Mr. Tulkinghorn," pipes GrandfatherSmallweed then; "I did business with him. I was useful to him, and hewas useful to me. Krook, dead and gone, was my brother-in-law. He wasown brother to a brimstone magpie--leastways Mrs. Smallweed. I comeinto Krook's property. I examined all his papers and all his effects.They was all dug out under my eyes. There was a bundle of lettersbelonging to a dead and gone lodger as was hid away at the back of ashelf in the side of Lady Jane's bed--his cat's bed. He hid allmanner of things away, everywheres. Mr. Tulkinghorn wanted 'em andgot 'em, but I looked 'em over first. I'm a man of business, and Itook a squint at 'em. They was letters from the lodger's sweetheart,and she signed Honoria. Dear me, that's not a common name, Honoria,is it? There's no lady in this house that signs Honoria is there? Oh,no, I don't think so! Oh, no, I don't think so! And not in the samehand, perhaps? Oh, no, I don't think so!"
Here Mr. Smallweed, seized with a fit of coughing in the midst of histriumph, breaks off to ejaculate, "Oh, dear me! Oh, Lord! I'm shakenall to pieces!"
"Now, when you're ready," says Mr. Bucket after awaiting hisrecovery, "to come to anything that concerns Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet, here the gentleman sits, you know."
"Haven't I come to it, Mr. Bucket?" cries Grandfather Smallweed."Isn't the gentleman concerned yet? Not with Captain Hawdon, and hisever affectionate Honoria, and their child into the bargain? Come,then, I want to know where those letters are. That concerns me, if itdon't concern Sir Leicester Dedlock. I will know where they are. Iwon't have 'em disappear so quietly. I handed 'em over to my friendand solicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn, not to anybody else."
"Why, he paid you for them, you know, and handsome too," says Mr.Bucket.
"I don't care for that. I want to know who's got 'em. And I tell youwhat we want--what we all here want, Mr. Bucket. We want morepainstaking and search-making into this murder. We know where theinterest and the motive was, and you have not done enough. If Georgethe vagabond dragoon had any hand in it, he was only an accomplice,and was set on. You know what I mean as well as any man."
"Now I tell you what," says Mr. Bucket, instantaneously altering hismanner, coming close to him, and communicating an extraordinaryfascination to the forefinger, "I am damned if I am a-going to havemy case spoilt, or interfered with, or anticipated by so much as halfa second of time by any human being in creation. YOU want morepainstaking and search-making! YOU do? Do you see this hand, and doyou think that I don't know the right time to stretch it out and putit on the arm that fired that shot?"
Such is the dread power of the man, and so terribly evident it isthat he makes no idle boast, that Mr. Smallweed begins to apologize.Mr. Bucket, dismissing his sudden anger, checks him.
"The advice I give you is, don't you trouble your head about themurder. That's my affair. You keep half an eye on the newspapers, andI shouldn't wonder if you was to read something about it before long,if you look sharp. I know my business, and that's all I've got to sayto you on that subject. Now about those letters. You want to knowwho's got 'em. I don't mind telling you. I have got 'em. Is that thepacket?"
Mr. Smallweed looks, with greedy eyes, at the little bundle Mr.Bucket produces from a mysterious part of his coat, and identifies itas the same.
"What have you got to say next?" asks Mr. Bucket. "Now, don't openyour mouth too wide, because you don't look handsome when you do it."
"I want five hundred pound."
"No, you don't; you mean fifty," says Mr. Bucket humorously.
It appears, however, that Mr. Smallweed means five hundred.
"That is, I am deputed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to consider(without admitting or promising anything) this bit of business," saysMr. Bucket--Sir Leicester mechanically bows his head--"and you ask meto consider a proposal of five hundred pounds. Why, it's anunreasonable proposal! Two fifty would be bad enough, but better thanthat. Hadn't you better say two fifty?"
Mr. Smallweed is quite clear that he had better not.
"Then," says Mr. Bucket, "let's hear Mr. Chadband. Lord! Many a timeI've heard my old fellow-serjeant of that name; and a moderate man hewas in all respects, as ever I come across!"
Thus invited, Mr. Chadband steps forth, and after a little sleeksmiling and a little oil-grinding with the palms of his hands,delivers himself as follows, "My friends, we are now--Rachael, mywife, and I--in the mansions of the rich and great. Why are we now inthe mansions of the rich and great, my friends? Is it because we areinvited? Because we are bidden to feast with them, because we arebidden to rejoice with them, because we are bidden to play the lutewith them, because we are bidden to dance with them? No. Then why arewe here, my friends? Air we in possession of a sinful secret, and dowe require corn, and wine, and oil, or what is much the same thing,money, for the keeping thereof? Probably so, my friends."
"You're a man of business, you are," returns Mr. Bucket, veryattentive, "and consequently you're going on to mention what thenature of your secret is. You are right. You couldn't do better."
"Let us then, my brother, in a spirit of love," says Mr. Chadbandwith a cunning eye, "proceed unto it. Rachael, my wife, advance!"
Mrs. Chadband, more than ready, so advances as to jostle her husbandinto the background and confronts Mr. Bucket with a hard, frowningsmile.
"Since you want to know what we know," says she, "I'll tell you. Ihelped to bring up Miss Hawdon, her ladyship's daughter. I was in theservice of her ladyship's sister, who was very sensitive to thedisgrace her ladyship brought upon her, and gave out, even to herladyship, that the child was dead--she WAS very nearly so--when shewas born. But she's alive, and I know her." With these words, and alaugh, and laying a bitter stress on the word "ladyship," Mrs.Chadband folds her arms and looks implacably at Mr. Bucket.
"I suppose now," returns that officer, "YOU will be expecting atwenty-pound note or a present of about that figure?"
Mrs. Chadband merely laughs and contemptuously tells him he can"offer" twenty pence.
"My friend the law-stationer's good lady, over there," says Mr.Bucket, luring Mrs. Snagsby forward with the finger. "What may YOURgame be, ma'am?"
Mrs. Snagsby is at first prevented, by tears and lamentations, fromstating the nature of her game, but by degrees it confusedly comes tolight that she is a woman overwhelmed with injuries and wrongs, whomMr. Snagsby has habitually deceived, abandoned, and sought to keep indarkness, and whose chief comfort, under her afflictions, has beenthe sympathy of the late Mr. Tulkinghorn, who showed so muchcommiseration for her on one occasion of his calling in Cook's Courtin the absence of her perjured husband that she has of latehabitually carried to him all her woes. Everybody it appears, thepresent company excepted, has plotted against Mrs. Snagsby's peace.There is Mr. Guppy, clerk to Kenge and Carboy, who was at first asopen as the sun at noon, but who suddenly shut up as close asmidnight, under the influence--no doubt--of Mr. Snagsby's suborningand tampering. There is Mr. Weevle, friend of Mr. Guppy, who livedmysteriously up a court, owing to the like coherent causes. There wasKrook, deceased; there was Nimrod, deceased; and there was Jo,deceased; and they were "all in it." In what, Mrs. Snagsby does notwith particularity express, but she knows that Jo was Mr. Snagsby'sson, "as well as if a trumpet had spoken it," and she followed Mr.Snagsby when he went on his last visit to the boy, and if he was nothis son why did he go? The one occupation of her life has been, forsome time back, to follow Mr. Snagsby to and fro, and up and down,and to piece suspicious circumstances together--and everycircumstance that has happened has been most suspicious; and in thisway she has pursued her object of detecting and confounding her falsehusband, night and day. Thus did it come to pass that she brought theChadbands and Mr. Tulkinghorn together, and conferred with Mr.Tulkinghorn on the change in Mr. Guppy, and helped to turn up thecircumstances in which the present company are interested, casually,by the wayside, being still and ever on the great high road that isto terminate in Mr. Snagsby's full exposure and a matrimonialseparation. All this, Mrs. Snagsby, as an injured woman, and thefriend of Mrs. Chadband, and the follower of Mr. Chadband, and themourner of the late Mr. Tulkinghorn, is here to certify under theseal of confidence, with every possible confusion and involvementpossible and impossible, having no pecuniary motive whatever, noscheme or project but the one mentioned, and bringing here, andtaking everywhere, her own dense atmosphere of dust, arising from theceaseless working of her mill of jealousy.
While this exordium is in hand--and it takes some time--Mr. Bucket,who has seen through the transparency of Mrs. Snagsby's vinegar at aglance, confers with his familiar demon and bestows his shrewdattention on the Chadbands and Mr. Smallweed. Sir Leicester Dedlockremains immovable, with the same icy surface upon him, except that heonce or twice looks towards Mr. Bucket, as relying on that officeralone of all mankind.
"Very good," says Mr. Bucket. "Now I understand you, you know, andbeing deputed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to look into thislittle matter," again Sir Leicester mechanically bows in confirmationof the statement, "can give it my fair and full attention. Now Iwon't allude to conspiring to extort money or anything of that sort,because we are men and women of the world here, and our object is tomake things pleasant. But I tell you what I DO wonder at; I amsurprised that you should think of making a noise below in the hall.It was so opposed to your interests. That's what I look at."
"We wanted to get in," pleads Mr. Smallweed.
"Why, of course you wanted to get in," Mr. Bucket asserts withcheerfulness; "but for a old gentleman at your time of life--what Icall truly venerable, mind you!--with his wits sharpened, as I haveno doubt they are, by the loss of the use of his limbs, whichoccasions all his animation to mount up into his head, not toconsider that if he don't keep such a business as the present asclose as possible it can't be worth a mag to him, is so curious! Yousee your temper got the better of you; that's where you lost ground,"says Mr. Bucket in an argumentative and friendly way.
"I only said I wouldn't go without one of the servants came up to SirLeicester Dedlock," returns Mr. Smallweed.
"That's it! That's where your temper got the better of you. Now, youkeep it under another time and you'll make money by it. Shall I ringfor them to carry you down?"
"When are we to hear more of this?" Mrs. Chadband sternly demands.
"Bless your heart for a true woman! Always curious, your delightfulsex is!" replies Mr. Bucket with gallantry. "I shall have thepleasure of giving you a call to-morrow or next day--not forgettingMr. Smallweed and his proposal of two fifty."
"Five hundred!" exclaims Mr. Smallweed.
"All right! Nominally five hundred." Mr. Bucket has his hand on thebell-rope. "SHALL I wish you good day for the present on the part ofmyself and the gentleman of the house?" he asks in an insinuatingtone.
Nobody having the hardihood to object to his doing so, he does it,and the party retire as they came up. Mr. Bucket follows them to thedoor, and returning, says with an air of serious business, "SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, it's for you to consider whether or notto buy this up. I should recommend, on the whole, it's being boughtup myself; and I think it may be bought pretty cheap. You see, thatlittle pickled cowcumber of a Mrs. Snagsby has been used by all sidesof the speculation and has done a deal more harm in bringing odds andends together than if she had meant it. Mr. Tulkinghorn, deceased, heheld all these horses in his hand and could have drove 'em his ownway, I haven't a doubt; but he was fetched off the box head-foremost,and now they have got their legs over the traces, and are alldragging and pulling their own ways. So it is, and such is life. Thecat's away, and the mice they play; the frost breaks up, and thewater runs. Now, with regard to the party to be apprehended."
Sir Leicester seems to wake, though his eyes have been wide open, andhe looks intently at Mr. Bucket as Mr. Bucket refers to his watch.
"The party to be apprehended is now in this house," proceeds Mr.Bucket, putting up his watch with a steady hand and with risingspirits, "and I'm about to take her into custody in your presence.Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, don't you say a word nor yet stir.There'll be no noise and no disturbance at all. I'll come back in thecourse of the evening, if agreeable to you, and endeavour to meetyour wishes respecting this unfortunate family matter and thenobbiest way of keeping it quiet. Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet, don't you be nervous on account of the apprehension atpresent coming off. You shall see the whole case clear, from first tolast."
Mr. Bucket rings, goes to the door, briefly whispers Mercury, shutsthe door, and stands behind it with his arms folded. After a suspenseof a minute or two the door slowly opens and a Frenchwoman enters.Mademoiselle Hortense.
The moment she is in the room Mr. Bucket claps the door to and putshis back against it. The suddenness of the noise occasions her toturn, and then for the first time she sees Sir Leicester Dedlock inhis chair.
"I ask you pardon," she mutters hurriedly. "They tell me there was noone here."
Her step towards the door brings her front to front with Mr. Bucket.Suddenly a spasm shoots across her face and she turns deadly pale.
"This is my lodger, Sir Leicester Dedlock," says Mr. Bucket, noddingat her. "This foreign young woman has been my lodger for some weeksback."
"What do Sir Leicester care for that, you think, my angel?" returnsmademoiselle in a jocular strain.
"Why, my angel," returns Mr. Bucket, "we shall see."
Mademoiselle Hortense eyes him with a scowl upon her tight face,which gradually changes into a smile of scorn, "You are verymysterieuse. Are you drunk?"
"Tolerable sober, my angel," returns Mr. Bucket.
"I come from arriving at this so detestable house with your wife.Your wife have left me since some minutes. They tell me downstairsthat your wife is here. I come here, and your wife is not here. Whatis the intention of this fool's play, say then?" mademoiselledemands, with her arms composedly crossed, but with something in herdark cheek beating like a clock.
Mr. Bucket merely shakes the finger at her.
"Ah, my God, you are an unhappy idiot!" cries mademoiselle with atoss of her head and a laugh. "Leave me to pass downstairs, greatpig." With a stamp of her foot and a menace.
"Now, mademoiselle," says Mr. Bucket in a cool determined way, "yougo and sit down upon that sofy."
"I will not sit down upon nothing," she replies with a shower ofnods.
"Now, mademoiselle," repeats Mr. Bucket, making no demonstrationexcept with the finger, "you sit down upon that sofy."
"Why?"
"Because I take you into custody on a charge of murder, and you don'tneed to be told it. Now, I want to be polite to one of your sex and aforeigner if I can. If I can't, I must be rough, and there's rougherones outside. What I am to be depends on you. So I recommend you, asa friend, afore another half a blessed moment has passed over yourhead, to go and sit down upon that sofy."
Mademoiselle complies, saying in a concentrated voice while thatsomething in her cheek beats fast and hard, "You are a devil."
"Now, you see," Mr. Bucket proceeds approvingly, "you're comfortableand conducting yourself as I should expect a foreign young woman ofyour sense to do. So I'll give you a piece of advice, and it's this,don't you talk too much. You're not expected to say anything here,and you can't keep too quiet a tongue in your head. In short, theless you PARLAY, the better, you know." Mr. Bucket is very complacentover this French explanation.
Mademoiselle, with that tigerish expansion of the mouth and her blackeyes darting fire upon him, sits upright on the sofa in a rigidstate, with her hands clenched--and her feet too, one mightsuppose--muttering, "Oh, you Bucket, you are a devil!"
"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," says Mr. Bucket, and from thistime forth the finger never rests, "this young woman, my lodger, washer ladyship's maid at the time I have mentioned to you; and thisyoung woman, besides being extraordinary vehement and passionateagainst her ladyship after being discharged--"
"Lie!" cries mademoiselle. "I discharge myself."
"Now, why don't you take my advice?" returns Mr. Bucket in animpressive, almost in an imploring, tone. "I'm surprised at theindiscreetness you commit. You'll say something that'll be usedagainst you, you know. You're sure to come to it. Never you mind whatI say till it's given in evidence. It is not addressed to you."
"Discharge, too," cries mademoiselle furiously, "by her ladyship! Eh,my faith, a pretty ladyship! Why, I r-r-r-ruin my character byremaining with a ladyship so infame!"
"Upon my soul I wonder at you!" Mr. Bucket remonstrates. "I thoughtthe French were a polite nation, I did, really. Yet to hear a femalegoing on like that before Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet!"
"He is a poor abused!" cries mademoiselle. "I spit upon his house,upon his name, upon his imbecility," all of which she makes thecarpet represent. "Oh, that he is a great man! Oh, yes, superb! Oh,heaven! Bah!"
"Well, Sir Leicester Dedlock," proceeds Mr. Bucket, "this intemperateforeigner also angrily took it into her head that she had establisheda claim upon Mr. Tulkinghorn, deceased, by attending on the occasionI told you of at his chambers, though she was liberally paid for hertime and trouble."
"Lie!" cries mademoiselle. "I ref-use his money all togezzer."
"If you WILL PARLAY, you know," says Mr. Bucket parenthetically, "youmust take the consequences. Now, whether she became my lodger, SirLeicester Dedlock, with any deliberate intention then of doing thisdeed and blinding me, I give no opinion on; but she lived in my housein that capacity at the time that she was hovering about the chambersof the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn with a view to a wrangle, andlikewise persecuting and half frightening the life out of anunfortunate stationer."
"Lie!" cries mademoiselle. "All lie!"
"The murder was committed, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and youknow under what circumstances. Now, I beg of you to follow me closewith your attention for a minute or two. I was sent for, and the casewas entrusted to me. I examined the place, and the body, and thepapers, and everything. From information I received (from a clerk inthe same house) I took George into custody as having been seenhanging about there on the night, and at very nigh the time of themurder, also as having been overheard in high words with the deceasedon former occasions--even threatening him, as the witness made out.If you ask me, Sir Leicester Dedlock, whether from the first Ibelieved George to be the murderer, I tell you candidly no, but hemight be, notwithstanding, and there was enough against him to makeit my duty to take him and get him kept under remand. Now, observe!"
As Mr. Bucket bends forward in some excitement--for him--andinaugurates what he is going to say with one ghostly beat of hisforefinger in the air, Mademoiselle Hortense fixes her black eyesupon him with a dark frown and sets her dry lips closely and firmlytogether.
"I went home, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, at night and found thisyoung woman having supper with my wife, Mrs. Bucket. She had made amighty show of being fond of Mrs. Bucket from her first offeringherself as our lodger, but that night she made more than ever--infact, overdid it. Likewise she overdid her respect, and all that, forthe lamented memory of the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn. By the livingLord it flashed upon me, as I sat opposite to her at the table andsaw her with a knife in her hand, that she had done it!"
Mademoiselle is hardly audible in straining through her teeth andlips the words, "You are a devil."
"Now where," pursues Mr. Bucket, "had she been on the night of themurder? She had been to the theayter. (She really was there, I havesince found, both before the deed and after it.) I knew I had anartful customer to deal with and that proof would be very difficult;and I laid a trap for her--such a trap as I never laid yet, and sucha venture as I never made yet. I worked it out in my mind while I wastalking to her at supper. When I went upstairs to bed, our housebeing small and this young woman's ears sharp, I stuffed the sheetinto Mrs. Bucket's mouth that she shouldn't say a word of surpriseand told her all about it. My dear, don't you give your mind to thatagain, or I shall link your feet together at the ankles." Mr. Bucket,breaking off, has made a noiseless descent upon mademoiselle and laidhis heavy hand upon her shoulder.
"What is the matter with you now?" she asks him.
"Don't you think any more," returns Mr. Bucket with admonitoryfinger, "of throwing yourself out of window. That's what's the matterwith me. Come! Just take my arm. You needn't get up; I'll sit down byyou. Now take my arm, will you? I'm a married man, you know; you'reacquainted with my wife. Just take my arm."
Vainly endeavouring to moisten those dry lips, with a painful soundshe struggles with herself and complies.
"Now we're all right again. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, this casecould never have been the case it is but for Mrs. Bucket, who is awoman in fifty thousand--in a hundred and fifty thousand! To throwthis young woman off her guard, I have never set foot in our housesince, though I've communicated with Mrs. Bucket in the baker'sloaves and in the milk as often as required. My whispered words toMrs. Bucket when she had the sheet in her mouth were, 'My dear, canyou throw her off continually with natural accounts of my suspicionsagainst George, and this, and that, and t'other? Can you do withoutrest and keep watch upon her night and day? Can you undertake to say,'She shall do nothing without my knowledge, she shall be my prisonerwithout suspecting it, she shall no more escape from me than fromdeath, and her life shall be my life, and her soul my soul, till Ihave got her, if she did this murder?' Mrs. Bucket says to me, aswell as she could speak on account of the sheet, 'Bucket, I can!' Andshe has acted up to it glorious!"
"Lies!" mademoiselle interposes. "All lies, my friend!"
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, how did my calculations come outunder these circumstances? When I calculated that this impetuousyoung woman would overdo it in new directions, was I wrong or right?I was right. What does she try to do? Don't let it give you a turn?To throw the murder on her ladyship."
Sir Leicester rises from his chair and staggers down again.
"And she got encouragement in it from hearing that I was always here,which was done a-purpose. Now, open that pocket-book of mine, SirLeicester Dedlock, if I may take the liberty of throwing it towardsyou, and look at the letters sent to me, each with the two words'Lady Dedlock' in it. Open the one directed to yourself, which Istopped this very morning, and read the three words 'Lady Dedlock,Murderess' in it. These letters have been falling about like a showerof lady-birds. What do you say now to Mrs. Bucket, from her spy-placehaving seen them all 'written by this young woman? What do you say toMrs. Bucket having, within this half-hour, secured the correspondingink and paper, fellow half-sheets and what not? What do you say toMrs. Bucket having watched the posting of 'em every one by this youngwoman, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet?" Mr. Bucket asks, triumphantin his admiration of his lady's genius.
Two things are especially observable as Mr. Bucket proceeds to aconclusion. First, that he seems imperceptibly to establish adreadful right of property in mademoiselle. Secondly, that the veryatmosphere she breathes seems to narrow and contract about her as ifa close net or a pall were being drawn nearer and yet nearer aroundher breathless figure.
"There is no doubt that her ladyship was on the spot at the eventfulperiod," says Mr. Bucket, "and my foreign friend here saw her, Ibelieve, from the upper part of the staircase. Her ladyship andGeorge and my foreign friend were all pretty close on one another'sheels. But that don't signify any more, so I'll not go into it. Ifound the wadding of the pistol with which the deceased Mr.Tulkinghorn was shot. It was a bit of the printed description of yourhouse at Chesney Wold. Not much in that, you'll say, Sir LeicesterDedlock, Baronet. No. But when my foreign friend here is sothoroughly off her guard as to think it a safe time to tear up therest of that leaf, and when Mrs. Bucket puts the pieces together andfinds the wadding wanting, it begins to look like Queer Street."
"These are very long lies," mademoiselle interposes. "You prose greatdeal. Is it that you have almost all finished, or are you speakingalways?"
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," proceeds Mr. Bucket, who delightsin a full title and does violence to himself when he dispenses withany fragment of it, "the last point in the case which I am now goingto mention shows the necessity of patience in our business, and neverdoing a thing in a hurry. I watched this young woman yesterdaywithout her knowledge when she was looking at the funeral, in companywith my wife, who planned to take her there; and I had so much toconvict her, and I saw such an expression in her face, and my mind sorose against her malice towards her ladyship, and the time wasaltogether such a time for bringing down what you may callretribution upon her, that if I had been a younger hand with lessexperience, I should have taken her, certain. Equally, last night,when her ladyship, as is so universally admired I am sure, come homelooking--why, Lord, a man might almost say like Venus rising from theocean--it was so unpleasant and inconsistent to think of her beingcharged with a murder of which she was innocent that I felt quite towant to put an end to the job. What should I have lost? Sir LeicesterDedlock, Baronet, I should have lost the weapon. My prisoner hereproposed to Mrs. Bucket, after the departure of the funeral, thatthey should go per bus a little ways into the country and take tea ata very decent house of entertainment. Now, near that house ofentertainment there's a piece of water. At tea, my prisoner got up tofetch her pocket handkercher from the bedroom where the bonnets was;she was rather a long time gone and came back a little out of wind.As soon as they came home this was reported to me by Mrs. Bucket,along with her observations and suspicions. I had the piece of waterdragged by moonlight, in presence of a couple of our men, and thepocket pistol was brought up before it had been there half-a-dozenhours. Now, my dear, put your arm a little further through mine, andhold it steady, and I shan't hurt you!"
In a trice Mr. Bucket snaps a handcuff on her wrist. "That's one,"says Mr. Bucket. "Now the other, darling. Two, and all told!"
He rises; she rises too. "Where," she asks him, darkening her largeeyes until their drooping lids almost conceal them--and yet theystare, "where is your false, your treacherous, and cursed wife?"
"She's gone forrard to the Police Office," returns Mr. Bucket."You'll see her there, my dear."
"I would like to kiss her!" exclaims Mademoiselle Hortense, pantingtigress-like.
"You'd bite her, I suspect," says Mr. Bucket.
"I would!" making her eyes very large. "I would love to tear her limbfrom limb."
"Bless you, darling," says Mr. Bucket with the greatest composure,"I'm fully prepared to hear that. Your sex have such a surprisinganimosity against one another when you do differ. You don't mind mehalf so much, do you?"
"No. Though you are a devil still."
"Angel and devil by turns, eh?" cries Mr. Bucket. "But I am in myregular employment, you must consider. Let me put your shawl tidy.I've been lady's maid to a good many before now. Anything wanting tothe bonnet? There's a cab at the door."
Mademoiselle Hortense, casting an indignant eye at the glass, shakesherself perfectly neat in one shake and looks, to do her justice,uncommonly genteel.
"Listen then, my angel," says she after several sarcastic nods. "Youare very spiritual. But can you restore him back to life?"
Mr. Bucket answers, "Not exactly."
"That is droll. Listen yet one time. You are very spiritual. Can youmake a honourable lady of her?"
"Don't be so malicious," says Mr. Bucket.
"Or a haughty gentleman of HIM?" cries mademoiselle, referring to SirLeicester with ineffable disdain. "Eh! Oh, then regard him! The poorinfant! Ha! Ha! Ha!"
"Come, come, why this is worse PARLAYING than the other," says Mr.Bucket. "Come along!"
"You cannot do these things? Then you can do as you please with me.It is but the death, it is all the same. Let us go, my angel. Adieu,you old man, grey. I pity you, and I despise you!"
With these last words she snaps her teeth together as if her mouthclosed with a spring. It is impossible to describe how Mr. Bucketgets her out, but he accomplishes that feat in a manner so peculiarto himself, enfolding and pervading her like a cloud, and hoveringaway with her as if he were a homely Jupiter and she the object ofhis affections.
Sir Leicester, left alone, remains in the same attitude, as though hewere still listening and his attention were still occupied. At lengthhe gazes round the empty room, and finding it deserted, risesunsteadily to his feet, pushes back his chair, and walks a few steps,supporting himself by the table. Then he stops, and with more ofthose inarticulate sounds, lifts up his eyes and seems to stare atsomething.
Heaven knows what he sees. The green, green woods of Chesney Wold,the noble house, the pictures of his forefathers, strangers defacingthem, officers of police coarsely handling his most preciousheirlooms, thousands of fingers pointing at him, thousands of facessneering at him. But if such shadows flit before him to hisbewilderment, there is one other shadow which he can name withsomething like distinctness even yet and to which alone he addresseshis tearing of his white hair and his extended arms.
It is she in association with whom, saving that she has been foryears a main fibre of the root of his dignity and pride, he has neverhad a selfish thought. It is she whom he has loved, admired,honoured, and set up for the world to respect. It is she who, at thecore of all the constrained formalities and conventionalities of hislife, has been a stock of living tenderness and love, susceptible asnothing else is of being struck with the agony he feels. He sees her,almost to the exclusion of himself, and cannot bear to look upon hercast down from the high place she has graced so well.
And even to the point of his sinking on the ground, oblivious of hissuffering, he can yet pronounce her name with something likedistinctness in the midst of those intrusive sounds, and in a tone ofmourning and compassion rather than reproach.



CHAPTER LV
Flight

Inspector Bucket of the Detective has not yet struck his great blow,as just now chronicled, but is yet refreshing himself with sleeppreparatory to his field-day, when through the night and along thefreezing wintry roads a chaise and pair comes out of Lincolnshire,making its way towards London.
Railroads shall soon traverse all this country, and with a rattle anda glare the engine and train shall shoot like a meteor over the widenight-landscape, turning the moon paler; but as yet such things arenon-existent in these parts, though not wholly unexpected.Preparations are afoot, measurements are made, ground is staked out.Bridges are begun, and their not yet united piers desolately look atone another over roads and streams like brick and mortar couples withan obstacle to their union; fragments of embankments are thrown upand left as precipices with torrents of rusty carts and barrowstumbling over them; tripods of tall poles appear on hilltops, wherethere are rumours of tunnels; everything looks chaotic and abandonedin full hopelessness. Along the freezing roads, and through thenight, the post-chaise makes its way without a railroad on its mind.
Mrs. Rouncewell, so many years housekeeper at Chesney Wold, sitswithin the chaise; and by her side sits Mrs. Bagnet with her greycloak and umbrella. The old girl would prefer the bar in front, asbeing exposed to the weather and a primitive sort of perch more inaccordance with her usual course of travelling, but Mrs. Rouncewellis too thoughtful of her comfort to admit of her proposing it. Theold lady cannot make enough of the old girl. She sits, in her statelymanner, holding her hand, and regardless of its roughness, puts itoften to her lips. "You are a mother, my dear soul," says she manytimes, "and you found out my George's mother!"
"Why, George," returns Mrs. Bagnet, "was always free with me, ma'am,and when he said at our house to my Woolwich that of all the thingsmy Woolwich could have to think of when he grew to be a man, thecomfortablest would be that he had never brought a sorrowful lineinto his mother's face or turned a hair of her head grey, then I feltsure, from his way, that something fresh had brought his own motherinto his mind. I had often known him say to me, in past times, thathe had behaved bad to her."
"Never, my dear!" returns Mrs. Rouncewell, bursting into tears. "Myblessing on him, never! He was always fond of me, and loving to me,was my George! But he had a bold spirit, and he ran a little wild andwent for a soldier. And I know he waited at first, in letting us knowabout himself, till he should rise to be an officer; and when hedidn't rise, I know he considered himself beneath us, and wouldn't bea disgrace to us. For he had a lion heart, had my George, always froma baby!"
The old lady's hands stray about her as of yore, while she recalls,all in a tremble, what a likely lad, what a fine lad, what a gaygood-humoured clever lad he was; how they all took to him down atChesney Wold; how Sir Leicester took to him when he was a younggentleman; how the dogs took to him; how even the people who had beenangry with him forgave him the moment he was gone, poor boy. And nowto see him after all, and in a prison too! And the broad stomacherheaves, and the quaint upright old-fashioned figure bends under itsload of affectionate distress.
Mrs. Bagnet, with the instinctive skill of a good warm heart, leavesthe old housekeeper to her emotions for a little while--not withoutpassing the back of her hand across her own motherly eyes--andpresently chirps up in her cheery manner, "So I says to George when Igoes to call him in to tea (he pretended to be smoking his pipeoutside), 'What ails you this afternoon, George, for gracious sake? Ihave seen all sorts, and I have seen you pretty often in season andout of season, abroad and at home, and I never see you so melancholypenitent.' 'Why, Mrs. Bagnet,' says George, 'it's because I AMmelancholy and penitent both, this afternoon, that you see me so.''What have you done, old fellow?' I says. 'Why, Mrs. Bagnet,' saysGeorge, shaking his head, 'what I have done has been done this many along year, and is best not tried to be undone now. If I ever get toheaven it won't be for being a good son to a widowed mother; I say nomore.' Now, ma'am, when George says to me that it's best not tried tobe undone now, I have my thoughts as I have often had before, and Idraw it out of George how he comes to have such things on him thatafternoon. Then George tells me that he has seen by chance, at thelawyer's office, a fine old lady that has brought his mother plainbefore him, and he runs on about that old lady till he quite forgetshimself and paints her picture to me as she used to be, years uponyears back. So I says to George when he has done, who is this oldlady he has seen? And George tells me it's Mrs. Rouncewell,housekeeper for more than half a century to the Dedlock family downat Chesney Wold in Lincolnshire. George has frequently told me beforethat he's a Lincolnshire man, and I says to my old Lignum that night,'Lignum, that's his mother for five and for-ty pound!'"
All this Mrs. Bagnet now relates for the twentieth time at leastwithin the last four hours. Trilling it out like a kind of bird, witha pretty high note, that it may be audible to the old lady above thehum of the wheels.
"Bless you, and thank you," says Mrs. Rouncewell. "Bless you, andthank you, my worthy soul!"
"Dear heart!" cries Mrs. Bagnet in the most natural manner. "Nothanks to me, I am sure. Thanks to yourself, ma'am, for being soready to pay 'em! And mind once more, ma'am, what you had best doon finding George to be your own son is to make him--for yoursake--have every sort of help to put himself in the right and clearhimself of a charge of which he is as innocent as you or me. It won'tdo to have truth and justice on his side; he must have law andlawyers," exclaims the old girl, apparently persuaded that the latterform a separate establishment and have dissolved partnership withtruth and justice for ever and a day.
"He shall have," says Mrs. Rouncewell, "all the help that can be gotfor him in the world, my dear. I will spend all I have, andthankfully, to procure it. Sir Leicester will do his best, the wholefamily will do their best. I--I know something, my dear; and willmake my own appeal, as his mother parted from him all these years,and finding him in a jail at last."
The extreme disquietude of the old housekeeper's manner in sayingthis, her broken words, and her wringing of her hands make a powerfulimpression on Mrs. Bagnet and would astonish her but that she refersthem all to her sorrow for her son's condition. And yet Mrs. Bagnetwonders too why Mrs. Rouncewell should murmur so distractedly, "MyLady, my Lady, my Lady!" over and over again.
The frosty night wears away, and the dawn breaks, and the post-chaisecomes rolling on through the early mist like the ghost of a chaisedeparted. It has plenty of spectral company in ghosts of trees andhedges, slowly vanishing and giving place to the realities of day.London reached, the travellers alight, the old housekeeper in greattribulation and confusion, Mrs. Bagnet quite fresh and collected--asshe would be if her next point, with no new equipage and outfit, werethe Cape of Good Hope, the Island of Ascension, Hong Kong, or anyother military station.
But when they set out for the prison where the trooper isconfined, the old lady has managed to draw about her, with herlavender-coloured dress, much of the staid calmness which is itsusual accompaniment. A wonderfully grave, precise, and handsome pieceof old china she looks, though her heart beats fast and her stomacheris ruffled more than even the remembrance of this wayward son hasruffled it these many years.
Approaching the cell, they find the door opening and a warder in theact of coming out. The old girl promptly makes a sign of entreaty tohim to say nothing; assenting with a nod, he suffers them to enter ashe shuts the door.
So George, who is writing at his table, supposing himself to bealone, does not raise his eyes, but remains absorbed. The oldhousekeeper looks at him, and those wandering hands of hers are quiteenough for Mrs. Bagnet's confirmation, even if she could see themother and the son together, knowing what she knows, and doubt theirrelationship.
Not a rustle of the housekeeper's dress, not a gesture, not a wordbetrays her. She stands looking at him as he writes on, allunconscious, and only her fluttering hands give utterance to heremotions. But they are very eloquent, very, very eloquent. Mrs.Bagnet understands them. They speak of gratitude, of joy, of grief,of hope; of inextinguishable affection, cherished with no returnsince this stalwart man was a stripling; of a better son loved less,and this son loved so fondly and so proudly; and they speak in suchtouching language that Mrs. Bagnet's eyes brim up with tears and theyrun glistening down her sun-brown face.
"George Rouncewell! Oh, my dear child, turn and look at me!"
The trooper starts up, clasps his mother round the neck, and fallsdown on his knees before her. Whether in a late repentance, whetherin the first association that comes back upon him, he puts his handstogether as a child does when it says its prayers, and raising themtowards her breast, bows down his head, and cries.
"My George, my dearest son! Always my favourite, and my favouritestill, where have you been these cruel years and years? Grown such aman too, grown such a fine strong man. Grown so like what I knew hemust be, if it pleased God he was alive!"
She can ask, and he can answer, nothing connected for a time. Allthat time the old girl, turned away, leans one arm against thewhitened wall, leans her honest forehead upon it, wipes her eyes withher serviceable grey cloak, and quite enjoys herself like the best ofold girls as she is.
"Mother," says the trooper when they are more composed, "forgive mefirst of all, for I know my need of it."
Forgive him! She does it with all her heart and soul. She always hasdone it. She tells him how she has had it written in her will, thesemany years, that he was her beloved son George. She has neverbelieved any ill of him, never. If she had died without thishappiness--and she is an old woman now and can't look to live verylong--she would have blessed him with her last breath, if she had hadher senses, as her beloved son George.
"Mother, I have been an undutiful trouble to you, and I have myreward; but of late years I have had a kind of glimmering of apurpose in me too. When I left home I didn't care much, mother--I amafraid not a great deal--for leaving; and went away and 'listed,harum-scarum, making believe to think that I cared for nobody, no notI, and that nobody cared for me."
The trooper has dried his eyes and put away his handkerchief, butthere is an extraordinary contrast between his habitual manner ofexpressing himself and carrying himself and the softened tone inwhich he speaks, interrupted occasionally by a half-stifled sob.
"So I wrote a line home, mother, as you too well know, to say I had'listed under another name, and I went abroad. Abroad, at one time Ithought I would write home next year, when I might be better off; andwhen that year was out, I thought I would write home next year, whenI might be better off; and when that year was out again, perhaps Ididn't think much about it. So on, from year to year, through aservice of ten years, till I began to get older, and to ask myselfwhy should I ever write."
"I don't find any fault, child--but not to ease my mind, George? Nota word to your loving mother, who was growing older too?"
This almost overturns the trooper afresh, but he sets himself up witha great, rough, sounding clearance of his throat.
"Heaven forgive me, mother, but I thought there would be smallconsolation then in hearing anything about me. There were you,respected and esteemed. There was my brother, as I read in chanceNorth Country papers now and then, rising to be prosperous andfamous. There was I a dragoon, roving, unsettled, not self-made likehim, but self-unmade--all my earlier advantages thrown away, all mylittle learning unlearnt, nothing picked up but what unfitted me formost things that I could think of. What business had I to make myselfknown? After letting all that time go by me, what good could come ofit? The worst was past with you, mother. I knew by that time (being aman) how you had mourned for me, and wept for me, and prayed for me;and the pain was over, or was softened down, and I was better in yourmind as it was."
The old lady sorrowfully shakes her head, and taking one of hispowerful hands, lays it lovingly upon her shoulder.
"No, I don't say that it was so, mother, but that I made it out to beso. I said just now, what good could come of it? Well, my dearmother, some good might have come of it to myself--and there was themeanness of it. You would have sought me out; you would havepurchased my discharge; you would have taken me down to Chesney Wold;you would have brought me and my brother and my brother's familytogether; you would all have considered anxiously how to do somethingfor me and set me up as a respectable civilian. But how could any ofyou feel sure of me when I couldn't so much as feel sure of myself?How could you help regarding as an incumbrance and a discredit to youan idle dragooning chap who was an incumbrance and a discredit tohimself, excepting under discipline? How could I look my brother'schildren in the face and pretend to set them an example--I, thevagabond boy who had run away from home and been the grief andunhappiness of my mother's life? 'No, George.' Such were my words,mother, when I passed this in review before me: 'You have made yourbed. Now, lie upon it.'"
Mrs. Rouncewell, drawing up her stately form, shakes her head at theold girl with a swelling pride upon her, as much as to say, "I toldyou so!" The old girl relieves her feelings and testifies herinterest in the conversation by giving the trooper a great pokebetween the shoulders with her umbrella; this action she afterwardsrepeats, at intervals, in a species of affectionate lunacy, neverfailing, after the administration of each of these remonstrances, toresort to the whitened wall and the grey cloak again.
"This was the way I brought myself to think, mother, that my bestamends was to lie upon that bed I had made, and die upon it. And Ishould have done it (though I have been to see you more than oncedown at Chesney Wold, when you little thought of me) but for my oldcomrade's wife here, who I find has been too many for me. But I thankher for it. I thank you for it, Mrs. Bagnet, with all my heart andmight."
To which Mrs. Bagnet responds with two pokes.
And now the old lady impresses upon her son George, her own dearrecovered boy, her joy and pride, the light of her eyes, the happyclose of her life, and every fond name she can think of, that he mustbe governed by the best advice obtainable by money and influence,that he must yield up his case to the greatest lawyers that can begot, that he must act in this serious plight as he shall be advisedto act and must not be self-willed, however right, but must promiseto think only of his poor old mother's anxiety and suffering until heis released, or he will break her heart.
"Mother, 'tis little enough to consent to," returns the trooper,stopping her with a kiss; "tell me what I shall do, and I'll make alate beginning and do it. Mrs. Bagnet, you'll take care of my mother,I know?"
A very hard poke from the old girl's umbrella.
"If you'll bring her acquainted with Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson,she will find them of her way of thinking, and they will give her thebest advice and assistance."
"And, George," says the old lady, "we must send with all haste foryour brother. He is a sensible sound man as they tell me--out in theworld beyond Chesney Wold, my dear, though I don't know much of itmyself--and will be of great service."
"Mother," returns the trooper, "is it too soon to ask a favour?"
"Surely not, my dear."
"Then grant me this one great favour. Don't let my brother know."
"Not know what, my dear?"
"Not know of me. In fact, mother, I can't bear it; I can't make up mymind to it. He has proved himself so different from me and has doneso much to raise himself while I've been soldiering that I haven'tbrass enough in my composition to see him in this place and underthis charge. How could a man like him be expected to have anypleasure in such a discovery? It's impossible. No, keep my secretfrom him, mother; do me a greater kindness than I deserve and keep mysecret from my brother, of all men."
"But not always, dear George?"
"Why, mother, perhaps not for good and all--though I may come to askthat too--but keep it now, I do entreat you. If it's ever broke tohim that his rip of a brother has turned up, I could wish," says thetrooper, shaking his head very doubtfully, "to break it myself and begoverned as to advancing or retreating by the way in which he seemsto take it."
As he evidently has a rooted feeling on this point, and as the depthof it is recognized in Mrs. Bagnet's face, his mother yields herimplicit assent to what he asks. For this he thanks her kindly.
"In all other respects, my dear mother, I'll be as tractable andobedient as you can wish; on this one alone, I stand out. So now I amready even for the lawyers. I have been drawing up," he glances athis writing on the table, "an exact account of what I knew of thedeceased and how I came to be involved in this unfortunate affair.It's entered, plain and regular, like an orderly-book; not a word init but what's wanted for the facts. I did intend to read it, straighton end, whensoever I was called upon to say anything in my defence. Ihope I may be let to do it still; but I have no longer a will of myown in this case, and whatever is said or done, I give my promise notto have any."
Matters being brought to this so far satisfactory pass, and timebeing on the wane, Mrs. Bagnet proposes a departure. Again and againthe old lady hangs upon her son's neck, and again and again thetrooper holds her to his broad chest.
"Where are you going to take my mother, Mrs. Bagnet?"
"I am going to the town house, my dear, the family house. I have somebusiness there that must be looked to directly," Mrs. Rouncewellanswers.
"Will you see my mother safe there in a coach, Mrs. Bagnet? But ofcourse I know you will. Why should I ask it!"
Why indeed, Mrs. Bagnet expresses with the umbrella.
"Take her, my old friend, and take my gratitude along with you.Kisses to Quebec and Malta, love to my godson, a hearty shake of thehand to Lignum, and this for yourself, and I wish it was ten thousandpound in gold, my dear!" So saying, the trooper puts his lips to theold girl's tanned forehead, and the door shuts upon him in his cell.
No entreaties on the part of the good old housekeeper will induceMrs. Bagnet to retain the coach for her own conveyance home. Jumpingout cheerfully at the door of the Dedlock mansion and handing Mrs.Rouncewell up the steps, the old girl shakes hands and trudges off,arriving soon afterwards in the bosom of the Bagnet family andfalling to washing the greens as if nothing had happened.
My Lady is in that room in which she held her last conference withthe murdered man, and is sitting where she sat that night, and islooking at the spot where he stood upon the hearth studying her soleisurely, when a tap comes at the door. Who is it? Mrs. Rouncewell.What has brought Mrs. Rouncewell to town so unexpectedly?
"Trouble, my Lady. Sad trouble. Oh, my Lady, may I beg a word withyou?"
What new occurrence is it that makes this tranquil old woman trembleso? Far happier than her Lady, as her Lady has often thought, whydoes she falter in this manner and look at her with such strangemistrust?
"What is the matter? Sit down and take your breath."
"Oh, my Lady, my Lady. I have found my son--my youngest, who wentaway for a soldier so long ago. And he is in prison."
"For debt?"
"Oh, no, my Lady; I would have paid any debt, and joyful."
"For what is he in prison then?"
"Charged with a murder, my Lady, of which he is as innocent as--as Iam. Accused of the murder of Mr. Tulkinghorn."
What does she mean by this look and this imploring gesture? Why doesshe come so close? What is the letter that she holds?
"Lady Dedlock, my dear Lady, my good Lady, my kind Lady! You musthave a heart to feel for me, you must have a heart to forgive me. Iwas in this family before you were born. I am devoted to it. Butthink of my dear son wrongfully accused."
"I do not accuse him."
"No, my Lady, no. But others do, and he is in prison and in danger.Oh, Lady Dedlock, if you can say but a word to help to clear him, sayit!"
What delusion can this be? What power does she suppose is in theperson she petitions to avert this unjust suspicion, if it be unjust?Her Lady's handsome eyes regard her with astonishment, almost withfear.
"My Lady, I came away last night from Chesney Wold to find my son inmy old age, and the step upon the Ghost's Walk was so constant and sosolemn that I never heard the like in all these years. Night afternight, as it has fallen dark, the sound has echoed through yourrooms, but last night it was awfullest. And as it fell dark lastnight, my Lady, I got this letter."
"What letter is it?"
"Hush! Hush!" The housekeeper looks round and answers in a frightenedwhisper, "My Lady, I have not breathed a word of it, I don't believewhat's written in it, I know it can't be true, I am sure and certainthat it is not true. But my son is in danger, and you must have aheart to pity me. If you know of anything that is not known toothers, if you have any suspicion, if you have any clue at all, andany reason for keeping it in your own breast, oh, my dear Lady, thinkof me, and conquer that reason, and let it be known! This is the mostI consider possible. I know you are not a hard lady, but you go yourown way always without help, and you are not familiar with yourfriends; and all who admire you--and all do--as a beautiful andelegant lady, know you to be one far away from themselves who can'tbe approached close. My Lady, you may have some proud or angryreasons for disdaining to utter something that you know; if so, pray,oh, pray, think of a faithful servant whose whole life has beenpassed in this family which she dearly loves, and relent, and help toclear my son! My Lady, my good Lady," the old housekeeper pleads withgenuine simplicity, "I am so humble in my place and you are by natureso high and distant that you may not think what I feel for my child,but I feel so much that I have come here to make so bold as to begand pray you not to be scornful of us if you can do us any right orjustice at this fearful time!"
Lady Dedlock raises her without one word, until she takes the letterfrom her hand.
"Am I to read this?"
"When I am gone, my Lady, if you please, and then remembering themost that I consider possible."
"I know of nothing I can do. I know of nothing I reserve that canaffect your son. I have never accused him."
"My Lady, you may pity him the more under a false accusation afterreading the letter."
The old housekeeper leaves her with the letter in her hand. In truthshe is not a hard lady naturally, and the time has been when thesight of the venerable figure suing to her with such strongearnestness would have moved her to great compassion. But so longaccustomed to suppress emotion and keep down reality, so longschooled for her own purposes in that destructive school which shutsup the natural feelings of the heart like flies in amber and spreadsone uniform and dreary gloss over the good and bad, the feeling andthe unfeeling, the sensible and the senseless, she had subdued evenher wonder until now.
She opens the letter. Spread out upon the paper is a printed accountof the discovery of the body as it lay face downward on the floor,shot through the heart; and underneath is written her own name, withthe word "murderess" attached.
It falls out of her hand. How long it may have lain upon the groundshe knows not, but it lies where it fell when a servant stands beforeher announcing the young man of the name of Guppy. The words haveprobably been repeated several times, for they are ringing in herhead before she begins to understand them.
"Let him come in!"
He comes in. Holding the letter in her hand, which she has taken fromthe floor, she tries to collect her thoughts. In the eyes of Mr.Guppy she is the same Lady Dedlock, holding the same prepared, proud,chilling state.
"Your ladyship may not be at first disposed to excuse this visit fromone who has never been welcome to your ladyship"--which he don'tcomplain of, for he is bound to confess that there never has been anyparticular reason on the face of things why he should be--"but I hopewhen I mention my motives to your ladyship you will not find faultwith me," says Mr. Guppy.
"Do so."
"Thank your ladyship. I ought first to explain to your ladyship," Mr.Guppy sits on the edge of a chair and puts his hat on the carpet athis feet, "that Miss Summerson, whose image, as I formerly mentionedto your ladyship, was at one period of my life imprinted on my 'eartuntil erased by circumstances over which I had no control,communicated to me, after I had the pleasure of waiting on yourladyship last, that she particularly wished me to take no stepswhatever in any manner at all relating to her. And Miss Summerson'swishes being to me a law (except as connected with circumstances overwhich I have no control), I consequently never expected to have thedistinguished honour of waiting on your ladyship again."
And yet he is here now, Lady Dedlock moodily reminds him.
"And yet I am here now," Mr. Guppy admits. "My object being tocommunicate to your ladyship, under the seal of confidence, why I amhere."
He cannot do so, she tells him, too plainly or too briefly. "Nor canI," Mr. Guppy returns with a sense of injury upon him, "tooparticularly request your ladyship to take particular notice thatit's no personal affair of mine that brings me here. I have nointerested views of my own to serve in coming here. If it was not formy promise to Miss Summerson and my keeping of it sacred--I, in pointof fact, shouldn't have darkened these doors again, but should haveseen 'em further first."
Mr. Guppy considers this a favourable moment for sticking up his hairwith both hands.
"Your ladyship will remember when I mention it that the last time Iwas here I run against a party very eminent in our profession andwhose loss we all deplore. That party certainly did from that timeapply himself to cutting in against me in a way that I will callsharp practice, and did make it, at every turn and point, extremelydifficult for me to be sure that I hadn't inadvertently led up tosomething contrary to Miss Summerson's wishes. Self-praise is norecommendation, but I may say for myself that I am not so bad a manof business neither."
Lady Dedlock looks at him in stern inquiry. Mr. Guppy immediatelywithdraws his eyes from her face and looks anywhere else.
"Indeed, it has been made so hard," he goes on, "to have any ideawhat that party was up to in combination with others that until theloss which we all deplore I was gravelled--an expression which yourladyship, moving in the higher circles, will be so good as toconsider tantamount to knocked over. Small likewise--a name by whichI refer to another party, a friend of mine that your ladyship is notacquainted with--got to be so close and double-faced that at times itwasn't easy to keep one's hands off his 'ead. However, what with theexertion of my humble abilities, and what with the help of a mutualfriend by the name of Mr. Tony Weevle (who is of a high aristocraticturn and has your ladyship's portrait always hanging up in his room),I have now reasons for an apprehension as to which I come to put yourladyship upon your guard. First, will your ladyship allow me to askyou whether you have had any strange visitors this morning? I don'tmean fashionable visitors, but such visitors, for instance, as MissBarbary's old servant, or as a person without the use of his lowerextremities, carried upstairs similarly to a guy?"
"No!"
"Then I assure your ladyship that such visitors have been here andhave been received here. Because I saw them at the door, and waitedat the corner of the square till they came out, and took half anhour's turn afterwards to avoid them."
"What have I to do with that, or what have you? I do not understandyou. What do you mean?"
"Your ladyship, I come to put you on your guard. There may be nooccasion for it. Very well. Then I have only done my best to keep mypromise to Miss Summerson. I strongly suspect (from what Small hasdropped, and from what we have corkscrewed out of him) that thoseletters I was to have brought to your ladyship were not destroyedwhen I supposed they were. That if there was anything to be blownupon, it IS blown upon. That the visitors I have alluded to have beenhere this morning to make money of it. And that the money is made, ormaking."
Mr. Guppy picks up his hat and rises.
"Your ladyship, you know best whether there's anything in what I sayor whether there's nothing. Something or nothing, I have acted up toMiss Summerson's wishes in letting things alone and in undoing what Ihad begun to do, as far as possible; that's sufficient for me. Incase I should be taking a liberty in putting your ladyship on yourguard when there's no necessity for it, you will endeavour, I shouldhope, to outlive my presumption, and I shall endeavour to outliveyour disapprobation. I now take my farewell of your ladyship, andassure you that there's no danger of your ever being waited on by meagain."
She scarcely acknowledges these parting words by any look, but whenhe has been gone a little while, she rings her bell.
"Where is Sir Leicester?"
Mercury reports that he is at present shut up in the library alone.
"Has Sir Leicester had any visitors this morning?"
Several, on business. Mercury proceeds to a description of them,which has been anticipated by Mr. Guppy. Enough; he may go.
So! All is broken down. Her name is in these many mouths, her husbandknows his wrongs, her shame will be published--may be spreading whileshe thinks about it--and in addition to the thunderbolt so longforeseen by her, so unforeseen by him, she is denounced by aninvisible accuser as the murderess of her enemy.
Her enemy he was, and she has often, often, often wished him dead.Her enemy he is, even in his grave. This dreadful accusation comesupon her like a new torment at his lifeless hand. And when sherecalls how she was secretly at his door that night, and how she maybe represented to have sent her favourite girl away so soon beforemerely to release herself from observation, she shudders as if thehangman's hands were at her neck.
She has thrown herself upon the floor and lies with her hair allwildly scattered and her face buried in the cushions of a couch. Sherises up, hurries to and fro, flings herself down again, and rocksand moans. The horror that is upon her is unutterable. If she reallywere the murderess, it could hardly be, for the moment, more intense.
For as her murderous perspective, before the doing of the deed,however subtle the precautions for its commission, would have beenclosed up by a gigantic dilatation of the hateful figure, preventingher from seeing any consequences beyond it; and as those consequenceswould have rushed in, in an unimagined flood, the moment the figurewas laid low--which always happens when a murder is done; so, now shesees that when he used to be on the watch before her, and she used tothink, "if some mortal stroke would but fall on this old man and takehim from my way!" it was but wishing that all he held against her inhis hand might be flung to the winds and chance-sown in many places.So, too, with the wicked relief she has felt in his death. What washis death but the key-stone of a gloomy arch removed, and now thearch begins to fall in a thousand fragments, each crushing andmangling piecemeal!
Thus, a terrible impression steals upon and overshadows her that fromthis pursuer, living or dead--obdurate and imperturbable before herin his well-remembered shape, or not more obdurate and imperturbablein his coffin-bed--there is no escape but in death. Hunted, sheflies. The complication of her shame, her dread, remorse, and misery,overwhelms her at its height; and even her strength of self-relianceis overturned and whirled away like a leaf before a mighty wind.
She hurriedly addresses these lines to her husband, seals, and leavesthem on her table:

   If I am sought for, or accused of, his murder, believe   that I am wholly innocent. Believe no other good of me,   for I am innocent of nothing else that you have heard,   or will hear, laid to my charge. He prepared me, on that   fatal night, for his disclosure of my guilt to you. After   he had left me, I went out on pretence of walking in the   garden where I sometimes walk, but really to follow him   and make one last petition that he would not protract the   dreadful suspense on which I have been racked by him, you   do not know how long, but would mercifully strike next   morning.
   I found his house dark and silent. I rang twice at his   door, but there was no reply, and I came home.
   I have no home left. I will encumber you no more. May   you, in your just resentment, be able to forget the   unworthy woman on whom you have wasted a most generous   devotion--who avoids you only with a deeper shame than   that with which she hurries from herself--and who writes   this last adieu.

She veils and dresses quickly, leaves all her jewels and her money,listens, goes downstairs at a moment when the hall is empty, opensand shuts the great door, flutters away in the shrill frosty wind.



CHAPTER LVI
Pursuit

Impassive, as behoves its high breeding, the Dedlock town housestares at the other houses in the street of dismal grandeur and givesno outward sign of anything going wrong within. Carriages rattle,doors are battered at, the world exchanges calls; ancient charmerswith skeleton throats and peachy cheeks that have a rather ghastlybloom upon them seen by daylight, when indeed these fascinatingcreatures look like Death and the Lady fused together, dazzle theeyes of men. Forth from the frigid mews come easily swingingcarriages guided by short-legged coachmen in flaxen wigs, deep sunkinto downy hammercloths, and up behind mount luscious Mercuriesbearing sticks of state and wearing cocked hats broadwise, aspectacle for the angels.
The Dedlock town house changes not externally, and hours pass beforeits exalted dullness is disturbed within. But Volumnia the fair,being subject to the prevalent complaint of boredom and finding thatdisorder attacking her spirits with some virulence, ventures atlength to repair to the library for change of scene. Her gentletapping at the door producing no response, she opens it and peeps in;seeing no one there, takes possession.
The sprightly Dedlock is reputed, in that grass-grown city of theancients, Bath, to be stimulated by an urgent curiosity which impelsher on all convenient and inconvenient occasions to sidle about witha golden glass at her eye, peering into objects of every description.Certain it is that she avails herself of the present opportunity ofhovering over her kinsman's letters and papers like a bird, taking ashort peck at this document and a blink with her head on one side atthat document, and hopping about from table to table with her glassat her eye in an inquisitive and restless manner. In the course ofthese researches she stumbles over something, and turning her glassin that direction, sees her kinsman lying on the ground like a felledtree.
Volumnia's pet little scream acquires a considerable augmentation ofreality from this surprise, and the house is quickly in commotion.Servants tear up and down stairs, bells are violently rung, doctorsare sent for, and Lady Dedlock is sought in all directions, but notfound. Nobody has seen or heard her since she last rang her bell. Herletter to Sir Leicester is discovered on her table, but it isdoubtful yet whether he has not received another missive from anotherworld requiring to be personally answered, and all the livinglanguages, and all the dead, are as one to him.
They lay him down upon his bed, and chafe, and rub, and fan, and putice to his head, and try every means of restoration. Howbeit, the dayhas ebbed away, and it is night in his room before his stertorousbreathing lulls or his fixed eyes show any consciousness of thecandle that is occasionally passed before them. But when this changebegins, it goes on; and by and by he nods or moves his eyes or evenhis hand in token that he hears and comprehends.
He fell down, this morning, a handsome stately gentleman, somewhatinfirm, but of a fine presence, and with a well-filled face. He liesupon his bed, an aged man with sunken cheeks, the decrepit shadow ofhimself. His voice was rich and mellow and he had so long beenthoroughly persuaded of the weight and import to mankind of any wordhe said that his words really had come to sound as if there weresomething in them. But now he can only whisper, and what he whisperssounds like what it is--mere jumble and jargon.
His favourite and faithful housekeeper stands at his bedside. It isthe first act he notices, and he clearly derives pleasure from it.After vainly trying to make himself understood in speech, he makessigns for a pencil. So inexpressively that they cannot at firstunderstand him; it is his old housekeeper who makes out what he wantsand brings in a slate.
After pausing for some time, he slowly scrawls upon it in a hand thatis not his, "Chesney Wold?"
No, she tells him; he is in London. He was taken ill in the librarythis morning. Right thankful she is that she happened to come toLondon and is able to attend upon him.
"It is not an illness of any serious consequence, Sir Leicester. Youwill be much better to-morrow, Sir Leicester. All the gentlemen sayso." This, with the tears coursing down her fair old face.
After making a survey of the room and looking with particularattention all round the bed where the doctors stand, he writes, "MyLady."
"My Lady went out, Sir Leicester, before you were taken ill, anddon't know of your illness yet."
He points again, in great agitation, at the two words. They all tryto quiet him, but he points again with increased agitation. On theirlooking at one another, not knowing what to say, he takes the slateonce more and writes "My Lady. For God's sake, where?" And makes animploring moan.
It is thought better that his old housekeeper should give him LadyDedlock's letter, the contents of which no one knows or can surmise.She opens it for him and puts it out for his perusal. Having read ittwice by a great effort, he turns it down so that it shall not beseen and lies moaning. He passes into a kind of relapse or into aswoon, and it is an hour before he opens his eyes, reclining on hisfaithful and attached old servant's arm. The doctors know that he isbest with her, and when not actively engaged about him, stand aloof.
The slate comes into requisition again, but the word he wants towrite he cannot remember. His anxiety, his eagerness, and afflictionat this pass are pitiable to behold. It seems as if he must go mad inthe necessity he feels for haste and the inability under which helabours of expressing to do what or to fetch whom. He has written theletter B, and there stopped. Of a sudden, in the height of hismisery, he puts Mr. before it. The old housekeeper suggests Bucket.Thank heaven! That's his meaning.
Mr. Bucket is found to be downstairs, by appointment. Shall he comeup?
There is no possibility of misconstruing Sir Leicester's burning wishto see him or the desire he signifies to have the room cleared ofevery one but the housekeeper. It is speedily done, and Mr. Bucketappears. Of all men upon earth, Sir Leicester seems fallen from hishigh estate to place his sole trust and reliance upon this man.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I'm sorry to see you like this. Ihope you'll cheer up. I'm sure you will, on account of the familycredit."
Sir Leicester puts her letter in his hands and looks intently in hisface while he reads it. A new intelligence comes into Mr. Bucket'seye as he reads on; with one hook of his finger, while that eye isstill glancing over the words, he indicates, "Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet, I understand you."
Sir Leicester writes upon the slate. "Full forgiveness. Find--" Mr.Bucket stops his hand.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I'll find her. But my search afterher must be begun out of hand. Not a minute must be lost."
With the quickness of thought, he follows Sir Leicester Dedlock'slook towards a little box upon a table.
"Bring it here, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet? Certainly. Open itwith one of these here keys? Certainly. The littlest key? TO be sure.Take the notes out? So I will. Count 'em? That's soon done. Twentyand thirty's fifty, and twenty's seventy, and fifty's one twenty, andforty's one sixty. Take 'em for expenses? That I'll do, and render anaccount of course. Don't spare money? No I won't."
The velocity and certainty of Mr. Bucket's interpretation on allthese heads is little short of miraculous. Mrs. Rouncewell, who holdsthe light, is giddy with the swiftness of his eyes and hands as hestarts up, furnished for his journey.
"You're George's mother, old lady; that's about what you are, Ibelieve?" says Mr. Bucket aside, with his hat already on andbuttoning his coat.
"Yes, sir, I am his distressed mother."
"So I thought, according to what he mentioned to me just now. Well,then, I'll tell you something. You needn't be distressed no more.Your son's all right. Now, don't you begin a-crying, because whatyou've got to do is to take care of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,and you won't do that by crying. As to your son, he's all right, Itell you; and he sends his loving duty, and hoping you're the same.He's discharged honourable; that's about what HE is; with no moreimputation on his character than there is on yours, and yours is atidy one, I'LL bet a pound. You may trust me, for I took your son. Heconducted himself in a game way, too, on that occasion; and he's afine-made man, and you're a fine-made old lady, and you're a motherand son, the pair of you, as might be showed for models in a caravan.Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, what you've trusted to me I'll gothrough with. Don't you be afraid of my turning out of my way, rightor left, or taking a sleep, or a wash, or a shave till I have foundwhat I go in search of. Say everything as is kind and forgiving onyour part? Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I will. And I wish youbetter, and these family affairs smoothed over--as, Lord, many otherfamily affairs equally has been, and equally will be, to the end oftime."
With this peroration, Mr. Bucket, buttoned up, goes quietly out,looking steadily before him as if he were already piercing the nightin quest of the fugitive.
His first step is to take himself to Lady Dedlock's rooms and lookall over them for any trifling indication that may help him. Therooms are in darkness now; and to see Mr. Bucket with a wax-light inhis hand, holding it above his head and taking a sharp mentalinventory of the many delicate objects so curiously at variance withhimself, would be to see a sight--which nobody DOES see, as he isparticular to lock himself in.
"A spicy boudoir, this," says Mr. Bucket, who feels in a mannerfurbished up in his French by the blow of the morning. "Must havecost a sight of money. Rum articles to cut away from, these; she musthave been hard put to it!"
Opening and shutting table-drawers and looking into caskets andjewel-cases, he sees the reflection of himself in various mirrors,and moralizes thereon.
"One might suppose I was a-moving in the fashionable circles andgetting myself up for almac's," says Mr. Bucket. "I begin to think Imust be a swell in the Guards without knowing it."
Ever looking about, he has opened a dainty little chest in an innerdrawer. His great hand, turning over some gloves which it canscarcely feel, they are so light and soft within it, comes upon awhite handkerchief.
"Hum! Let's have a look at YOU," says Mr. Bucket, putting down thelight. "What should YOU be kept by yourself for? What's YOUR motive?Are you her ladyship's property, or somebody else's? You've got amark upon you somewheres or another, I suppose?"
He finds it as he speaks, "Esther Summerson."
"Oh!" says Mr. Bucket, pausing, with his finger at his ear. "Come,I'll take YOU."
He completes his observations as quietly and carefully as he hascarried them on, leaves everything else precisely as he found it,glides away after some five minutes in all, and passes into thestreet. With a glance upward at the dimly lighted windows of SirLeicester's room, he sets off, full-swing, to the nearestcoach-stand, picks out the horse for his money, and directs to bedriven to the shooting gallery. Mr. Bucket does not claim to be ascientific judge of horses, but he lays out a little money on theprincipal events in that line, and generally sums up his knowledge ofthe subject in the remark that when he sees a horse as can go, heknows him.
His knowledge is not at fault in the present instance. Clatteringover the stones at a dangerous pace, yet thoughtfully bringing hiskeen eyes to bear on every slinking creature whom he passes in themidnight streets, and even on the lights in upper windows wherepeople are going or gone to bed, and on all the turnings that herattles by, and alike on the heavy sky, and on the earth where thesnow lies thin--for something may present itself to assist him,anywhere--he dashes to his destination at such a speed that when hestops the horse half smothers him in a cloud of steam.
"Unbear him half a moment to freshen him up, and I'll be back."
He runs up the long wooden entry and finds the trooper smoking hispipe.
"I thought I should, George, after what you have gone through, mylad. I haven't a word to spare. Now, honour! All to save a woman.Miss Summerson that was here when Gridley died--that was the name, Iknow--all right--where does she live?"
The trooper has just come from there and gives him the address, nearOxford Street.
"You won't repent it, George. Good night!"
He is off again, with an impression of having seen Phil sitting bythe frosty fire staring at him open-mouthed, and gallops away again,and gets out in a cloud of steam again.
Mr. Jarndyce, the only person up in the house, is just going to bed,rises from his book on hearing the rapid ringing at the bell, andcomes down to the door in his dressing-gown.
"Don't be alarmed, sir." In a moment his visitor is confidential withhim in the hall, has shut the door, and stands with his hand upon thelock. "I've had the pleasure of seeing you before. Inspector Bucket.Look at that handkerchief, sir, Miss Esther Summerson's. Found itmyself put away in a drawer of Lady Dedlock's, quarter of an hourago. Not a moment to lose. Matter of life or death. You know LadyDedlock?"
"Yes."
"There has been a discovery there to-day. Family affairs have comeout. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, has had a fit--apoplexy orparalysis--and couldn't be brought to, and precious time has beenlost. Lady Dedlock disappeared this afternoon and left a letter forhim that looks bad. Run your eye over it. Here it is!"
Mr. Jarndyce, having read it, asks him what he thinks.
"I don't know. It looks like suicide. Anyways, there's more and moredanger, every minute, of its drawing to that. I'd give a hundredpound an hour to have got the start of the present time. Now, Mr.Jarndyce, I am employed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to followher and find her, to save her and take her his forgiveness. I havemoney and full power, but I want something else. I want MissSummerson."
Mr. Jarndyce in a troubled voice repeats, "Miss Summerson?"
"Now, Mr. Jarndyce"--Mr. Bucket has read his face with the greatestattention all along--"I speak to you as a gentleman of a humaneheart, and under such pressing circumstances as don't often happen.If ever delay was dangerous, it's dangerous now; and if ever youcouldn't afterwards forgive yourself for causing it, this is thetime. Eight or ten hours, worth, as I tell you, a hundred poundapiece at least, have been lost since Lady Dedlock disappeared. I amcharged to find her. I am Inspector Bucket. Besides all the restthat's heavy on her, she has upon her, as she believes, suspicion ofmurder. If I follow her alone, she, being in ignorance of what SirLeicester Dedlock, Baronet, has communicated to me, may be driven todesperation. But if I follow her in company with a young lady,answering to the description of a young lady that she has atenderness for--I ask no question, and I say no more than that--shewill give me credit for being friendly. Let me come up with her andbe able to have the hold upon her of putting that young lady for'ard,and I'll save her and prevail with her if she is alive. Let me comeup with her alone--a hard matter--and I'll do my best, but I don'tanswer for what the best may be. Time flies; it's getting on for oneo'clock. When one strikes, there's another hour gone, and it's wortha thousand pound now instead of a hundred."
This is all true, and the pressing nature of the case cannot bequestioned. Mr. Jarndyce begs him to remain there while he speaks toMiss Summerson. Mr. Bucket says he will, but acting on his usualprinciple, does no such thing, following upstairs instead and keepinghis man in sight. So he remains, dodging and lurking about in thegloom of the staircase while they confer. In a very little time Mr.Jarndyce comes down and tells him that Miss Summerson will join himdirectly and place herself under his protection to accompany himwhere he pleases. Mr. Bucket, satisfied, expresses high approval andawaits her coming at the door.
There he mounts a high tower in his mind and looks out far and wide.Many solitary figures he perceives creeping through the streets; manysolitary figures out on heaths, and roads, and lying under haystacks.But the figure that he seeks is not among them. Other solitaries heperceives, in nooks of bridges, looking over; and in shadowed placesdown by the river's level; and a dark, dark, shapeless objectdrifting with the tide, more solitary than all, clings with adrowning hold on his attention.
Where is she? Living or dead, where is she? If, as he folds thehandkerchief and carefully puts it up, it were able with an enchantedpower to bring before him the place where she found it and thenight-landscape near the cottage where it covered the little child,would he descry her there? On the waste where the brick-kilns areburning with a pale blue flare, where the straw-roofs of the wretchedhuts in which the bricks are made are being scattered by the wind,where the clay and water are hard frozen and the mill in which thegaunt blind horse goes round all day looks like an instrument ofhuman torture--traversing this deserted, blighted spot there is alonely figure with the sad world to itself, pelted by the snow anddriven by the wind, and cast out, it would seem, from allcompanionship. It is the figure of a woman, too; but it is miserablydressed, and no such clothes ever came through the hall and out atthe great door of the Dedlock mansion.



CHAPTER LVII
Esther's Narrative

I had gone to bed and fallen asleep when my guardian knocked at thedoor of my room and begged me to get up directly. On my hurrying tospeak to him and learn what had happened, he told me, after a word ortwo of preparation, that there had been a discovery at Sir LeicesterDedlock's. That my mother had fled, that a person was now at our doorwho was empowered to convey to her the fullest assurances ofaffectionate protection and forgiveness if he could possibly findher, and that I was sought for to accompany him in the hope that myentreaties might prevail upon her if his failed. Something to thisgeneral purpose I made out, but I was thrown into such a tumult ofalarm, and hurry and distress, that in spite of every effort I couldmake to subdue my agitation, I did not seem, to myself, fully torecover my right mind until hours had passed.
But I dressed and wrapped up expeditiously without waking Charley orany one and went down to Mr. Bucket, who was the person entrustedwith the secret. In taking me to him my guardian told me this, andalso explained how it was that he had come to think of me. Mr.Bucket, in a low voice, by the light of my guardian's candle, read tome in the hall a letter that my mother had left upon her table; and Isuppose within ten minutes of my having been aroused I was sittingbeside him, rolling swiftly through the streets.
His manner was very keen, and yet considerate when he explained to methat a great deal might depend on my being able to answer, withoutconfusion, a few questions that he wished to ask me. These were,chiefly, whether I had had much communication with my mother (to whomhe only referred as Lady Dedlock), when and where I had spoken withher last, and how she had become possessed of my handkerchief. When Ihad satisfied him on these points, he asked me particularly toconsider--taking time to think--whether within my knowledge there wasany one, no matter where, in whom she might be at all likely toconfide under circumstances of the last necessity. I could think ofno one but my guardian. But by and by I mentioned Mr. Boythorn. Hecame into my mind as connected with his old chivalrous manner ofmentioning my mother's name and with what my guardian had informed meof his engagement to her sister and his unconscious connexion withher unhappy story.
My companion had stopped the driver while we held this conversation,that we might the better hear each other. He now told him to go onagain and said to me, after considering within himself for a fewmoments, that he had made up his mind how to proceed. He was quitewilling to tell me what his plan was, but I did not feel clear enoughto understand it.
We had not driven very far from our lodgings when we stopped in aby-street at a public-looking place lighted up with gas. Mr. Buckettook me in and sat me in an arm-chair by a bright fire. It was nowpast one, as I saw by the clock against the wall. Two policeofficers, looking in their perfectly neat uniform not at all likepeople who were up all night, were quietly writing at a desk; and theplace seemed very quiet altogether, except for some beating andcalling out at distant doors underground, to which nobody paid anyattention.
A third man in uniform, whom Mr. Bucket called and to whom hewhispered his instructions, went out; and then the two others advisedtogether while one wrote from Mr. Bucket's subdued dictation. It wasa description of my mother that they were busy with, for Mr. Bucketbrought it to me when it was done and read it in a whisper. It wasvery accurate indeed.
The second officer, who had attended to it closely, then copied itout and called in another man in uniform (there were several in anouter room), who took it up and went away with it. All this was donewith the greatest dispatch and without the waste of a moment; yetnobody was at all hurried. As soon as the paper was sent out upon itstravels, the two officers resumed their former quiet work of writingwith neatness and care. Mr. Bucket thoughtfully came and warmed thesoles of his boots, first one and then the other, at the fire.
"Are you well wrapped up, Miss Summerson?" he asked me as his eyesmet mine. "It's a desperate sharp night for a young lady to be outin."
I told him I cared for no weather and was warmly clothed.
"It may be a long job," he observed; "but so that it ends well, nevermind, miss."
"I pray to heaven it may end well!" said I.
He nodded comfortingly. "You see, whatever you do, don't you go andfret yourself. You keep yourself cool and equal for anything that mayhappen, and it'll be the better for you, the better for me, thebetter for Lady Dedlock, and the better for Sir Leicester Dedlock,Baronet."
He was really very kind and gentle, and as he stood before the firewarming his boots and rubbing his face with his forefinger, I felt aconfidence in his sagacity which reassured me. It was not yet aquarter to two when I heard horses' feet and wheels outside. "Now,Miss Summerson," said he, "we are off, if you please!"
He gave me his arm, and the two officers courteously bowed me out,and we found at the door a phaeton or barouche with a postilion andpost horses. Mr. Bucket handed me in and took his own seat on thebox. The man in uniform whom he had sent to fetch this equipage thenhanded him up a dark lantern at his request, and when he had given afew directions to the driver, we rattled away.
I was far from sure that I was not in a dream. We rattled with greatrapidity through such a labyrinth of streets that I soon lost allidea where we were, except that we had crossed and re-crossed theriver, and still seemed to be traversing a low-lying, waterside,dense neighbourhood of narrow thoroughfares chequered by docks andbasins, high piles of warehouses, swing-bridges, and masts of ships.At length we stopped at the corner of a little slimy turning, whichthe wind from the river, rushing up it, did not purify; and I saw mycompanion, by the light of his lantern, in conference with severalmen who looked like a mixture of police and sailors. Against themouldering wall by which they stood, there was a bill, on which Icould discern the words, "Found Drowned"; and this and an inscriptionabout drags possessed me with the awful suspicion shadowed forth inour visit to that place.
I had no need to remind myself that I was not there by the indulgenceof any feeling of mine to increase the difficulties of the search, orto lessen its hopes, or enhance its delays. I remained quiet, butwhat I suffered in that dreadful spot I never can forget. And stillit was like the horror of a dream. A man yet dark and muddy, in longswollen sodden boots and a hat like them, was called out of a boatand whispered with Mr. Bucket, who went away with him down someslippery steps--as if to look at something secret that he had toshow. They came back, wiping their hands upon their coats, afterturning over something wet; but thank God it was not what I feared!
After some further conference, Mr. Bucket (whom everybody seemed toknow and defer to) went in with the others at a door and left me inthe carriage, while the driver walked up and down by his horses towarm himself. The tide was coming in, as I judged from the sound itmade, and I could hear it break at the end of the alley with a littlerush towards me. It never did so--and I thought it did so, hundredsof times, in what can have been at the most a quarter of an hour, andprobably was less--but the thought shuddered through me that it wouldcast my mother at the horses' feet.
Mr. Bucket came out again, exhorting the others to be vigilant,darkened his lantern, and once more took his seat. "Don't you bealarmed, Miss Summerson, on account of our coming down here," hesaid, turning to me. "I only want to have everything in train and toknow that it is in train by looking after it myself. Get on, my lad!"
We appeared to retrace the way we had come. Not that I had taken noteof any particular objects in my perturbed state of mind, but judgingfrom the general character of the streets. We called at anotheroffice or station for a minute and crossed the river again. Duringthe whole of this time, and during the whole search, my companion,wrapped up on the box, never relaxed in his vigilance a singlemoment; but when we crossed the bridge he seemed, if possible, to bemore on the alert than before. He stood up to look over the parapet,he alighted and went back after a shadowy female figure that flittedpast us, and he gazed into the profound black pit of water with aface that made my heart die within me. The river had a fearful look,so overcast and secret, creeping away so fast between the low flatlines of shore--so heavy with indistinct and awful shapes, both ofsubstance and shadow; so death-like and mysterious. I have seen itmany times since then, by sunlight and by moonlight, but never freefrom the impressions of that journey. In my memory the lights uponthe bridge are always burning dim, the cutting wind is eddying roundthe homeless woman whom we pass, the monotonous wheels are whirlingon, and the light of the carriage-lamps reflected back looks palelyin upon me--a face rising out of the dreaded water.
Clattering and clattering through the empty streets, we came atlength from the pavement on to dark smooth roads and began to leavethe houses behind us. After a while I recognized the familiar way toSaint Albans. At Barnet fresh horses were ready for us, and wechanged and went on. It was very cold indeed, and the open countrywas white with snow, though none was falling then.
"An old acquaintance of yours, this road, Miss Summerson," said Mr.Bucket cheerfully.
"Yes," I returned. "Have you gathered any intelligence?"
"None that can be quite depended on as yet," he answered, "but it'searly times as yet."
He had gone into every late or early public-house where therewas a light (they were not a few at that time, the road beingthen much frequented by drovers) and had got down to talk to theturnpike-keepers. I had heard him ordering drink, and chinking money,and making himself agreeable and merry everywhere; but whenever hetook his seat upon the box again, his face resumed its watchfulsteady look, and he always said to the driver in the same businesstone, "Get on, my lad!"
With all these stoppages, it was between five and six o'clock and wewere yet a few miles short of Saint Albans when he came out of one ofthese houses and handed me in a cup of tea.
"Drink it, Miss Summerson, it'll do you good. You're beginning to getmore yourself now, ain't you?"
I thanked him and said I hoped so.
"You was what you may call stunned at first," he returned; "and Lord,no wonder! Don't speak loud, my dear. It's all right. She's onahead."
I don't know what joyful exclamation I made or was going to make, buthe put up his finger and I stopped myself.
"Passed through here on foot this evening about eight or nine. Iheard of her first at the archway toll, over at Highgate, butcouldn't make quite sure. Traced her all along, on and off. Pickedher up at one place, and dropped her at another; but she's before usnow, safe. Take hold of this cup and saucer, ostler. Now, if youwasn't brought up to the butter trade, look out and see if you cancatch half a crown in your t'other hand. One, two, three, and thereyou are! Now, my lad, try a gallop!"
We were soon in Saint Albans and alighted a little before day, when Iwas just beginning to arrange and comprehend the occurrences of thenight and really to believe that they were not a dream. Leaving thecarriage at the posting-house and ordering fresh horses to be ready,my companion gave me his arm, and we went towards home.
"As this is your regular abode, Miss Summerson, you see," heobserved, "I should like to know whether you've been asked for by anystranger answering the description, or whether Mr. Jarndyce has. Idon't much expect it, but it might be."
As we ascended the hill, he looked about him with a sharp eye--theday was now breaking--and reminded me that I had come down it onenight, as I had reason for remembering, with my little servant andpoor Jo, whom he called Toughey.
I wondered how he knew that.
"When you passed a man upon the road, just yonder, you know," saidMr. Bucket.
Yes, I remembered that too, very well.
"That was me," said Mr. Bucket.
Seeing my surprise, he went on, "I drove down in a gig that afternoonto look after that boy. You might have heard my wheels when you cameout to look after him yourself, for I was aware of you and yourlittle maid going up when I was walking the horse down. Making aninquiry or two about him in the town, I soon heard what company hewas in and was coming among the brick-fields to look for him when Iobserved you bringing him home here."
"Had he committed any crime?" I asked.
"None was charged against him," said Mr. Bucket, coolly lifting offhis hat, "but I suppose he wasn't over-particular. No. What I wantedhim for was in connexion with keeping this very matter of LadyDedlock quiet. He had been making his tongue more free than welcomeas to a small accidental service he had been paid for by the deceasedMr. Tulkinghorn; and it wouldn't do, at any sort of price, to havehim playing those games. So having warned him out of London, I madean afternoon of it to warn him to keep out of it now he WAS away, andgo farther from it, and maintain a bright look-out that I didn'tcatch him coming back again."
"Poor creature!" said I.
"Poor enough," assented Mr. Bucket, "and trouble enough, and wellenough away from London, or anywhere else. I was regularly turned onmy back when I found him taken up by your establishment, I do assureyou."
I asked him why. "Why, my dear?" said Mr. Bucket. "Naturally therewas no end to his tongue then. He might as well have been born with ayard and a half of it, and a remnant over."
Although I remember this conversation now, my head was in confusionat the time, and my power of attention hardly did more than enable meto understand that he entered into these particulars to divert me.With the same kind intention, manifestly, he often spoke to me ofindifferent things, while his face was busy with the one object thatwe had in view. He still pursued this subject as we turned in at thegarden-gate.
"Ah!" said Mr. Bucket. "Here we are, and a nice retired place it is.Puts a man in mind of the country house in the Woodpecker-tapping,that was known by the smoke which so gracefully curled. They're earlywith the kitchen fire, and that denotes good servants. But whatyou've always got to be careful of with servants is who comes to see'em; you never know what they're up to if you don't know that. Andanother thing, my dear. Whenever you find a young man behind thekitchen-door, you give that young man in charge on suspicion of beingsecreted in a dwelling-house with an unlawful purpose."
We were now in front of the house; he looked attentively and closelyat the gravel for footprints before he raised his eyes to thewindows.
"Do you generally put that elderly young gentleman in the same roomwhen he's on a visit here, Miss Summerson?" he inquired, glancing atMr. Skimpole's usual chamber.
"You know Mr. Skimpole!" said I.
"What do you call him again?" returned Mr. Bucket, bending down hisear. "Skimpole, is it? I've often wondered what his name might be.Skimpole. Not John, I should say, nor yet Jacob?"
"Harold," I told him.
"Harold. Yes. He's a queer bird is Harold," said Mr. Bucket, eyeingme with great expression.
"He is a singular character," said I.
"No idea of money," observed Mr. Bucket. "He takes it, though!"
I involuntarily returned for answer that I perceived Mr. Bucket knewhim.
"Why, now I'll tell you, Miss Summerson," he replied. "Your mind willbe all the better for not running on one point too continually, andI'll tell you for a change. It was him as pointed out to me whereToughey was. I made up my mind that night to come to the door and askfor Toughey, if that was all; but willing to try a move or so first,if any such was on the board, I just pitched up a morsel of gravel atthat window where I saw a shadow. As soon as Harold opens it and Ihave had a look at him, thinks I, you're the man for me. So Ismoothed him down a bit about not wanting to disturb the family afterthey was gone to bed and about its being a thing to be regretted thatcharitable young ladies should harbour vagrants; and then, when Ipretty well understood his ways, I said I should consider a fypunnotewell bestowed if I could relieve the premises of Toughey withoutcausing any noise or trouble. Then says he, lifting up his eyebrowsin the gayest way, 'It's no use mentioning a fypunnote to me, myfriend, because I'm a mere child in such matters and have no idea ofmoney.' Of course I understood what his taking it so easy meant; andbeing now quite sure he was the man for me, I wrapped the note rounda little stone and threw it up to him. Well! He laughs and beams, andlooks as innocent as you like, and says, 'But I don't know the valueof these things. What am I to DO with this?' 'Spend it, sir,' says I.'But I shall be taken in,' he says, 'they won't give me the rightchange, I shall lose it, it's no use to me.' Lord, you never saw sucha face as he carried it with! Of course he told me where to findToughey, and I found him."
I regarded this as very treacherous on the part of Mr. Skimpoletowards my guardian and as passing the usual bounds of his childishinnocence.
"Bounds, my dear?" returned Mr. Bucket. "Bounds? Now, Miss Summerson,I'll give you a piece of advice that your husband will find usefulwhen you are happily married and have got a family about you.Whenever a person says to you that they are as innocent as can be inall concerning money, look well after your own money, for they aredead certain to collar it if they can. Whenever a person proclaims toyou 'In worldly matters I'm a child,' you consider that that personis only a-crying off from being held accountable and that you havegot that person's number, and it's Number One. Now, I am not apoetical man myself, except in a vocal way when it goes round acompany, but I'm a practical one, and that's my experience. So's thisrule. Fast and loose in one thing, fast and loose in everything. Inever knew it fail. No more will you. Nor no one. With which cautionto the unwary, my dear, I take the liberty of pulling this here bell,and so go back to our business."
I believe it had not been for a moment out of his mind, any more thanit had been out of my mind, or out of his face. The whole householdwere amazed to see me, without any notice, at that time in themorning, and so accompanied; and their surprise was not diminished bymy inquiries. No one, however, had been there. It could not bedoubted that this was the truth.
"Then, Miss Summerson," said my companion, "we can't be too soon atthe cottage where those brickmakers are to be found. Most inquiriesthere I leave to you, if you'll be so good as to make 'em. Thenaturalest way is the best way, and the naturalest way is your ownway."
We set off again immediately. On arriving at the cottage, we found itshut up and apparently deserted, but one of the neighbours who knewme and who came out when I was trying to make some one hear informedme that the two women and their husbands now lived together inanother house, made of loose rough bricks, which stood on the marginof the piece of ground where the kilns were and where the long rowsof bricks were drying. We lost no time in repairing to this place,which was within a few hundred yards; and as the door stood ajar, Ipushed it open.
There were only three of them sitting at breakfast, the child lyingasleep on a bed in the corner. It was Jenny, the mother of the deadchild, who was absent. The other woman rose on seeing me; and themen, though they were, as usual, sulky and silent, each gave me amorose nod of recognition. A look passed between them when Mr. Bucketfollowed me in, and I was surprised to see that the woman evidentlyknew him.
I had asked leave to enter of course. Liz (the only name by which Iknew her) rose to give me her own chair, but I sat down on a stoolnear the fire, and Mr. Bucket took a corner of the bedstead. Now thatI had to speak and was among people with whom I was not familiar, Ibecame conscious of being hurried and giddy. It was very difficult tobegin, and I could not help bursting into tears.
"Liz," said I, "I have come a long way in the night and through thesnow to inquire after a lady--"
"Who has been here, you know," Mr. Bucket struck in, addressing thewhole group with a composed propitiatory face; "that's the lady theyoung lady means. The lady that was here last night, you know."
"And who told YOU as there was anybody here?" inquired Jenny'shusband, who had made a surly stop in his eating to listen and nowmeasured him with his eye.
"A person of the name of Michael Jackson, with a blue welveteenwaistcoat with a double row of mother of pearl buttons," Mr. Bucketimmediately answered.
"He had as good mind his own business, whoever he is," growled theman.
"He's out of employment, I believe," said Mr. Bucket apologeticallyfor Michael Jackson, "and so gets talking."
The woman had not resumed her chair, but stood faltering with herhand upon its broken back, looking at me. I thought she would havespoken to me privately if she had dared. She was still in thisattitude of uncertainty when her husband, who was eating with a lumpof bread and fat in one hand and his clasp-knife in the other, struckthe handle of his knife violently on the table and told her with anoath to mind HER own business at any rate and sit down.
"I should like to have seen Jenny very much," said I, "for I am sureshe would have told me all she could about this lady, whom I am veryanxious indeed--you cannot think how anxious--to overtake. Will Jennybe here soon? Where is she?"
The woman had a great desire to answer, but the man, with anotheroath, openly kicked at her foot with his heavy boot. He left it toJenny's husband to say what he chose, and after a dogged silence thelatter turned his shaggy head towards me.
"I'm not partial to gentlefolks coming into my place, as you've heerdme say afore now, I think, miss. I let their places be, and it'scurious they can't let my place be. There'd be a pretty shine made ifI was to go a-wisitin THEM, I think. Howsoever, I don't so muchcomplain of you as of some others, and I'm agreeable to make you acivil answer, though I give notice that I'm not a-going to be drawedlike a badger. Will Jenny be here soon? No she won't. Where is she?She's gone up to Lunnun."
"Did she go last night?" I asked.
"Did she go last night? Ah! She went last night," he answered with asulky jerk of his head.
"But was she here when the lady came? And what did the lady say toher? And where is the lady gone? I beg and pray you to be so kind asto tell me," said I, "for I am in great distress to know."
"If my master would let me speak, and not say a word of harm--" thewoman timidly began.
"Your master," said her husband, muttering an imprecation with slowemphasis, "will break your neck if you meddle with wot don't concernyou."
After another silence, the husband of the absent woman, turning to meagain, answered me with his usual grumbling unwillingness.
"Wos Jenny here when the lady come? Yes, she wos here when the ladycome. Wot did the lady say to her? Well, I'll tell you wot the ladysaid to her. She said, 'You remember me as come one time to talk toyou about the young lady as had been a-wisiting of you? You rememberme as give you somethink handsome for a handkercher wot she hadleft?' Ah, she remembered. So we all did. Well, then, wos that younglady up at the house now? No, she warn't up at the house now. Well,then, lookee here. The lady was upon a journey all alone, strange aswe might think it, and could she rest herself where you're a settenfor a hour or so. Yes she could, and so she did. Then she went--itmight be at twenty minutes past eleven, and it might be at twentyminutes past twelve; we ain't got no watches here to know the timeby, nor yet clocks. Where did she go? I don't know where she go'd.She went one way, and Jenny went another; one went right to Lunnun,and t'other went right from it. That's all about it. Ask this man. Heheerd it all, and see it all. He knows."
The other man repeated, "That's all about it."
"Was the lady crying?" I inquired.
"Devil a bit," returned the first man. "Her shoes was the worse, andher clothes was the worse, but she warn't--not as I see."
The woman sat with her arms crossed and her eyes upon the ground. Herhusband had turned his seat a little so as to face her and kept hishammer-like hand upon the table as if it were in readiness to executehis threat if she disobeyed him.
"I hope you will not object to my asking your wife," said I, "how thelady looked."
"Come, then!" he gruffly cried to her. "You hear what she says. Cutit short and tell her."
"Bad," replied the woman. "Pale and exhausted. Very bad."
"Did she speak much?"
"Not much, but her voice was hoarse."
She answered, looking all the while at her husband for leave.
"Was she faint?" said I. "Did she eat or drink here?"
"Go on!" said the husband in answer to her look. "Tell her and cut itshort."
"She had a little water, miss, and Jenny fetched her some bread andtea. But she hardly touched it."
"And when she went from here," I was proceeding, when Jenny's husbandimpatiently took me up.
"When she went from here, she went right away nor'ard by the highroad. Ask on the road if you doubt me, and see if it warn't so. Now,there's the end. That's all about it."
I glanced at my companion, and finding that he had already risen andwas ready to depart, thanked them for what they had told me, and tookmy leave. The woman looked full at Mr. Bucket as he went out, and helooked full at her.
"Now, Miss Summerson," he said to me as we walked quickly away."They've got her ladyship's watch among 'em. That's a positive fact."
"You saw it?" I exclaimed.
"Just as good as saw it," he returned. "Else why should he talk abouthis 'twenty minutes past' and about his having no watch to tell thetime by? Twenty minutes! He don't usually cut his time so fine asthat. If he comes to half-hours, it's as much as HE does. Now, yousee, either her ladyship gave him that watch or he took it. I thinkshe gave it him. Now, what should she give it him for? What shouldshe give it him for?"
He repeated this question to himself several times as we hurried on,appearing to balance between a variety of answers that arose in hismind.
"If time could be spared," said Mr. Bucket, "which is the only thingthat can't be spared in this case, I might get it out of that woman;but it's too doubtful a chance to trust to under presentcircumstances. They are up to keeping a close eye upon her, and anyfool knows that a poor creetur like her, beaten and kicked andscarred and bruised from head to foot, will stand by the husband thatill uses her through thick and thin. There's something kept back.It's a pity but what we had seen the other woman."
I regretted it exceedingly, for she was very grateful, and I feltsure would have resisted no entreaty of mine.
"It's possible, Miss Summerson," said Mr. Bucket, pondering on it,"that her ladyship sent her up to London with some word for you, andit's possible that her husband got the watch to let her go. It don'tcome out altogether so plain as to please me, but it's on the cards.Now, I don't take kindly to laying out the money of Sir LeicesterDedlock, Baronet, on these roughs, and I don't see my way to theusefulness of it at present. No! So far our road, Miss Summerson, isfor'ard--straight ahead--and keeping everything quiet!"
We called at home once more that I might send a hasty note to myguardian, and then we hurried back to where we had left the carriage.The horses were brought out as soon as we were seen coming, and wewere on the road again in a few minutes.
It had set in snowing at daybreak, and it now snowed hard. The airwas so thick with the darkness of the day and the density of the fallthat we could see but a very little way in any direction. Although itwas extremely cold, the snow was but partially frozen, and itchurned--with a sound as if it were a beach of small shells--underthe hoofs of the horses into mire and water. They sometimes slippedand floundered for a mile together, and we were obliged to come to astandstill to rest them. One horse fell three times in this firststage, and trembled so and was so shaken that the driver had todismount from his saddle and lead him at last.
I could eat nothing and could not sleep, and I grew so nervous underthose delays and the slow pace at which we travelled that I had anunreasonable desire upon me to get out and walk. Yielding to mycompanion's better sense, however, I remained where I was. All thistime, kept fresh by a certain enjoyment of the work in which he wasengaged, he was up and down at every house we came to, addressingpeople whom he had never beheld before as old acquaintances, runningin to warm himself at every fire he saw, talking and drinking andshaking hands at every bar and tap, friendly with every waggoner,wheelwright, blacksmith, and toll-taker, yet never seeming to losetime, and always mounting to the box again with his watchful, steadyface and his business-like "Get on, my lad!"
When we were changing horses the next time, he came from thestable-yard, with the wet snow encrusted upon him and dropping offhim--plashing and crashing through it to his wet knees as he had beendoing frequently since we left Saint Albans--and spoke to me at thecarriage side.
"Keep up your spirits. It's certainly true that she came on here,Miss Summerson. There's not a doubt of the dress by this time, andthe dress has been seen here."
"Still on foot?" said I.
"Still on foot. I think the gentleman you mentioned must be the pointshe's aiming at, and yet I don't like his living down in her own partof the country neither."
"I know so little," said I. "There may be some one else nearer here,of whom I never heard."
"That's true. But whatever you do, don't you fall a-crying, my dear;and don't you worry yourself no more than you can help. Get on, mylad!"
The sleet fell all that day unceasingly, a thick mist came on early,and it never rose or lightened for a moment. Such roads I had neverseen. I sometimes feared we had missed the way and got into theploughed grounds or the marshes. If I ever thought of the time I hadbeen out, it presented itself as an indefinite period of greatduration, and I seemed, in a strange way, never to have been freefrom the anxiety under which I then laboured.
As we advanced, I began to feel misgivings that my companion lostconfidence. He was the same as before with all the roadside people,but he looked graver when he sat by himself on the box. I saw hisfinger uneasily going across and across his mouth during the whole ofone long weary stage. I overheard that he began to ask the drivers ofcoaches and other vehicles coming towards us what passengers they hadseen in other coaches and vehicles that were in advance. Theirreplies did not encourage him. He always gave me a reassuring beck ofhis finger and lift of his eyelid as he got upon the box again, buthe seemed perplexed now when he said, "Get on, my lad!"
At last, when we were changing, he told me that he had lost the trackof the dress so long that he began to be surprised. It was nothing,he said, to lose such a track for one while, and to take it up foranother while, and so on; but it had disappeared here in anunaccountable manner, and we had not come upon it since. Thiscorroborated the apprehensions I had formed, when he began to look atdirection-posts, and to leave the carriage at cross roads for aquarter of an hour at a time while he explored them. But I was not tobe down-hearted, he told me, for it was as likely as not that thenext stage might set us right again.
The next stage, however, ended as that one ended; we had no new clue.There was a spacious inn here, solitary, but a comfortablesubstantial building, and as we drove in under a large gateway beforeI knew it, where a landlady and her pretty daughters came to thecarriage-door, entreating me to alight and refresh myself while thehorses were making ready, I thought it would be uncharitable torefuse. They took me upstairs to a warm room and left me there.
It was at the corner of the house, I remember, looking two ways. Onone side to a stable-yard open to a by-road, where the ostlers wereunharnessing the splashed and tired horses from the muddy carriage,and beyond that to the by-road itself, across which the sign washeavily swinging; on the other side to a wood of dark pine-trees.Their branches were encumbered with snow, and it silently dropped offin wet heaps while I stood at the window. Night was setting in, andits bleakness was enhanced by the contrast of the pictured fireglowing and gleaming in the window-pane. As I looked among the stemsof the trees and followed the discoloured marks in the snow where thethaw was sinking into it and undermining it, I thought of themotherly face brightly set off by daughters that had just nowwelcomed me and of MY mother lying down in such a wood to die.
I was frightened when I found them all about me, but I rememberedthat before I fainted I tried very hard not to do it; and that wassome little comfort. They cushioned me up on a large sofa by thefire, and then the comely landlady told me that I must travel nofurther to-night, but must go to bed. But this put me into such atremble lest they should detain me there that she soon recalled herwords and compromised for a rest of half an hour.
A good endearing creature she was. She and her three fair girls, allso busy about me. I was to take hot soup and broiled fowl, while Mr.Bucket dried himself and dined elsewhere; but I could not do it whena snug round table was presently spread by the fireside, though I wasvery unwilling to disappoint them. However, I could take some toastand some hot negus, and as I really enjoyed that refreshment, it madesome recompense.
Punctual to the time, at the half-hour's end the carriage camerumbling under the gateway, and they took me down, warmed, refreshed,comforted by kindness, and safe (I assured them) not to faint anymore. After I had got in and had taken a grateful leave of them all,the youngest daughter--a blooming girl of nineteen, who was to be thefirst married, they had told me--got upon the carriage step, reachedin, and kissed me. I have never seen her, from that hour, but I thinkof her to this hour as my friend.
The transparent windows with the fire and light, looking so brightand warm from the cold darkness out of doors, were soon gone, andagain we were crushing and churning the loose snow. We went on withtoil enough, but the dismal roads were not much worse than they hadbeen, and the stage was only nine miles. My companion smoking on thebox--I had thought at the last inn of begging him to do so when I sawhim standing at a great fire in a comfortable cloud of tobacco--wasas vigilant as ever and as quickly down and up again when we came toany human abode or any human creature. He had lighted his little darklantern, which seemed to be a favourite with him, for we had lamps tothe carriage; and every now and then he turned it upon me to see thatI was doing well. There was a folding-window to the carriage-head,but I never closed it, for it seemed like shutting out hope.
We came to the end of the stage, and still the lost trace was notrecovered. I looked at him anxiously when we stopped to change, but Iknew by his yet graver face as he stood watching the ostlers that hehad heard nothing. Almost in an instant afterwards, as I leaned backin my seat, he looked in, with his lighted lantern in his hand, anexcited and quite different man.
"What is it?" said I, starting. "Is she here?"
"No, no. Don't deceive yourself, my dear. Nobody's here. But I've gotit!"
The crystallized snow was in his eyelashes, in his hair, lying inridges on his dress. He had to shake it from his face and get hisbreath before he spoke to me.
"Now, Miss Summerson," said he, beating his finger on the apron,"don't you be disappointed at what I'm a-going to do. You know me.I'm Inspector Bucket, and you can trust me. We've come a long way;never mind. Four horses out there for the next stage up! Quick!"
There was a commotion in the yard, and a man came running out of thestables to know if he meant up or down.
"Up, I tell you! Up! Ain't it English? Up!"
"Up?" said I, astonished. "To London! Are we going back?"
"Miss Summerson," he answered, "back. Straight back as a die. Youknow me. Don't be afraid. I'll follow the other, by G----"
"The other?" I repeated. "Who?"
"You called her Jenny, didn't you? I'll follow her. Bring those twopair out here for a crown a man. Wake up, some of you!"
"You will not desert this lady we are in search of; you will notabandon her on such a night and in such a state of mind as I know herto be in!" said I, in an agony, and grasping his hand.
"You are right, my dear, I won't. But I'll follow the other. Lookalive here with them horses. Send a man for'ard in the saddle to thenext stage, and let him send another for'ard again, and order fouron, up, right through. My darling, don't you be afraid!"
These orders and the way in which he ran about the yard urging themcaused a general excitement that was scarcely less bewildering to methan the sudden change. But in the height of the confusion, a mountedman galloped away to order the relays, and our horses were put towith great speed.
"My dear," said Mr. Bucket, jumping to his seat and looking in again,"--you'll excuse me if I'm too familiar--don't you fret and worryyourself no more than you can help. I say nothing else at present;but you know me, my dear; now, don't you?"
I endeavoured to say that I knew he was far more capable than I ofdeciding what we ought to do, but was he sure that this was right?Could I not go forward by myself in search of--I grasped his handagain in my distress and whispered it to him--of my own mother.
"My dear," he answered, "I know, I know, and would I put you wrong,do you think? Inspector Bucket. Now you know me, don't you?"
What could I say but yes!
"Then you keep up as good a heart as you can, and you rely upon mefor standing by you, no less than by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.Now, are you right there?"
"All right, sir!"
"Off she goes, then. And get on, my lads!"
We were again upon the melancholy road by which we had come, tearingup the miry sleet and thawing snow as if they were torn up by awaterwheel.



CHAPTER LVIII
A Wintry Day and Night

Still impassive, as behoves its breeding, the Dedlock town housecarries itself as usual towards the street of dismal grandeur. Thereare powdered heads from time to time in the little windows of thehall, looking out at the untaxed powder falling all day from the sky;and in the same conservatory there is peach blossom turning itselfexotically to the great hall fire from the nipping weather out ofdoors. It is given out that my Lady has gone down into Lincolnshire,but is expected to return presently.
Rumour, busy overmuch, however, will not go down into Lincolnshire.It persists in flitting and chattering about town. It knows that thatpoor unfortunate man, Sir Leicester, has been sadly used. It hears,my dear child, all sorts of shocking things. It makes the world offive miles round quite merry. Not to know that there is somethingwrong at the Dedlocks' is to augur yourself unknown. One of thepeachy-cheeked charmers with the skeleton throats is already apprisedof all the principal circumstances that will come out before theLords on Sir Leicester's application for a bill of divorce.
At Blaze and Sparkle's the jewellers and at Sheen and Gloss's themercers, it is and will be for several hours the topic of the age,the feature of the century. The patronesses of those establishments,albeit so loftily inscrutable, being as nicely weighed and measuredthere as any other article of the stock-in-trade, are perfectlyunderstood in this new fashion by the rawest hand behind the counter."Our people, Mr. Jones," said Blaze and Sparkle to the hand inquestion on engaging him, "our people, sir, are sheep--mere sheep.Where two or three marked ones go, all the rest follow. Keep thosetwo or three in your eye, Mr. Jones, and you have the flock." So,likewise, Sheen and Gloss to THEIR Jones, in reference to knowingwhere to have the fashionable people and how to bring what they(Sheen and Gloss) choose into fashion. On similar unerringprinciples, Mr. Sladdery the librarian, and indeed the great farmerof gorgeous sheep, admits this very day, "Why yes, sir, therecertainly ARE reports concerning Lady Dedlock, very current indeedamong my high connexion, sir. You see, my high connexion must talkabout something, sir; and it's only to get a subject into vogue withone or two ladies I could name to make it go down with the whole.Just what I should have done with those ladies, sir, in the case ofany novelty you had left to me to bring in, they have done ofthemselves in this case through knowing Lady Dedlock and beingperhaps a little innocently jealous of her too, sir. You'll find,sir, that this topic will be very popular among my high connexion. Ifit had been a speculation, sir, it would have brought money. And whenI say so, you may trust to my being right, sir, for I have made it mybusiness to study my high connexion and to be able to wind it up likea clock, sir."
Thus rumour thrives in the capital, and will not go down intoLincolnshire. By half-past five, post meridian, Horse Guards' time,it has even elicited a new remark from the Honourable Mr. Stables,which bids fair to outshine the old one, on which he has so longrested his colloquial reputation. This sparkling sally is to theeffect that although he always knew she was the best-groomed woman inthe stud, he had no idea she was a bolter. It is immensely receivedin turf-circles.
At feasts and festivals also, in firmaments she has often graced, andamong constellations she outshone but yesterday, she is still theprevalent subject. What is it? Who is it? When was it? Where was it?How was it? She is discussed by her dear friends with all thegenteelest slang in vogue, with the last new word, the last newmanner, the last new drawl, and the perfection of politeindifference. A remarkable feature of the theme is that it is foundto be so inspiring that several people come out upon it who nevercame out before--positively say things! William Buffy carries one ofthese smartnesses from the place where he dines down to the House,where the Whip for his party hands it about with his snuff-box tokeep men together who want to be off, with such effect that theSpeaker (who has had it privately insinuated into his own ear underthe corner of his wig) cries, "Order at the bar!" three times withoutmaking an impression.
And not the least amazing circumstance connected with her beingvaguely the town talk is that people hovering on the confines of Mr.Sladdery's high connexion, people who know nothing and ever did knownothing about her, think it essential to their reputation to pretendthat she is their topic too, and to retail her at second-hand withthe last new word and the last new manner, and the last new drawl,and the last new polite indifference, and all the rest of it, all atsecond-hand but considered equal to new in inferior systems and tofainter stars. If there be any man of letters, art, or science amongthese little dealers, how noble in him to support the feeble sisterson such majestic crutches!
So goes the wintry day outside the Dedlock mansion. How within it?
Sir Leicester, lying in his bed, can speak a little, though withdifficulty and indistinctness. He is enjoined to silence and to rest,and they have given him some opiate to lull his pain, for his oldenemy is very hard with him. He is never asleep, though sometimes heseems to fall into a dull waking doze. He caused his bedstead to bemoved out nearer to the window when he heard it was such inclementweather, and his head to be so adjusted that he could see the drivingsnow and sleet. He watches it as it falls, throughout the wholewintry day.
Upon the least noise in the house, which is kept hushed, his hand isat the pencil. The old housekeeper, sitting by him, knows what hewould write and whispers, "No, he has not come back yet, SirLeicester. It was late last night when he went. He has been but alittle time gone yet."
He withdraws his hand and falls to looking at the sleet and snowagain until they seem, by being long looked at, to fall so thick andfast that he is obliged to close his eyes for a minute on the giddywhirl of white flakes and icy blots.
He began to look at them as soon as it was light. The day is not yetfar spent when he conceives it to be necessary that her rooms shouldbe prepared for her. It is very cold and wet. Let there be goodfires. Let them know that she is expected. Please see to it yourself.He writes to this purpose on his slate, and Mrs. Rouncewell with aheavy heart obeys.
"For I dread, George," the old lady says to her son, who waits belowto keep her company when she has a little leisure, "I dread, my dear,that my Lady will never more set foot within these walls."
"That's a bad presentiment, mother."
"Nor yet within the walls of Chesney Wold, my dear."
"That's worse. But why, mother?"
"When I saw my Lady yesterday, George, she looked to me--and I maysay at me too--as if the step on the Ghost's Walk had almost walkedher down."
"Come, come! You alarm yourself with old-story fears, mother."
"No I don't, my dear. No I don't. It's going on for sixty year that Ihave been in this family, and I never had any fears for it before.But it's breaking up, my dear; the great old Dedlock family isbreaking up."
"I hope not, mother."
"I am thankful I have lived long enough to be with Sir Leicester inthis illness and trouble, for I know I am not too old nor too uselessto be a welcomer sight to him than anybody else in my place would be.But the step on the Ghost's Walk will walk my Lady down, George; ithas been many a day behind her, and now it will pass her and go on."
"Well, mother dear, I say again, I hope not."
"Ah, so do I, George," the old lady returns, shaking her head andparting her folded hands. "But if my fears come true, and he has toknow it, who will tell him!"
"Are these her rooms?"
"These are my Lady's rooms, just as she left them."
"Why, now," says the trooper, glancing round him and speaking in alower voice, "I begin to understand how you come to think as you dothink, mother. Rooms get an awful look about them when they arefitted up, like these, for one person you are used to see in them,and that person is away under any shadow, let alone being God knowswhere."
He is not far out. As all partings foreshadow the great final one,so, empty rooms, bereft of a familiar presence, mournfully whisperwhat your room and what mine must one day be. My Lady's state has ahollow look, thus gloomy and abandoned; and in the inner apartment,where Mr. Bucket last night made his secret perquisition, the tracesof her dresses and her ornaments, even the mirrors accustomed toreflect them when they were a portion of herself, have a desolate andvacant air. Dark and cold as the wintry day is, it is darker andcolder in these deserted chambers than in many a hut that will barelyexclude the weather; and though the servants heap fires in the gratesand set the couches and the chairs within the warm glass screens thatlet their ruddy light shoot through to the furthest corners, there isa heavy cloud upon the rooms which no light will dispel.
The old housekeeper and her son remain until the preparations arecomplete, and then she returns upstairs. Volumnia has taken Mrs.Rouncewell's place in the meantime, though pearl necklaces and rougepots, however calculated to embellish Bath, are but indifferentcomforts to the invalid under present circumstances. Volumnia, notbeing supposed to know (and indeed not knowing) what is the matter,has found it a ticklish task to offer appropriate observations andconsequently has supplied their place with distracting smoothings ofthe bed-linen, elaborate locomotion on tiptoe, vigilant peeping ather kinsman's eyes, and one exasperating whisper to herself of, "Heis asleep." In disproof of which superfluous remark Sir Leicester hasindignantly written on the slate, "I am not."
Yielding, therefore, the chair at the bedside to the quaint oldhousekeeper, Volumnia sits at a table a little removed,sympathetically sighing. Sir Leicester watches the sleet and snow andlistens for the returning steps that he expects. In the ears of hisold servant, looking as if she had stepped out of an oldpicture-frame to attend a summoned Dedlock to another world, thesilence is fraught with echoes of her own words, "Who will tell him!"
He has been under his valet's hands this morning to be madepresentable and is as well got up as the circumstances will allow. Heis propped with pillows, his grey hair is brushed in its usualmanner, his linen is arranged to a nicety, and he is wrapped in aresponsible dressing-gown. His eye-glass and his watch are ready tohis hand. It is necessary--less to his own dignity now perhaps thanfor her sake--that he should be seen as little disturbed and as muchhimself as may be. Women will talk, and Volumnia, though a Dedlock,is no exceptional case. He keeps her here, there is little doubt, toprevent her talking somewhere else. He is very ill, but he makes hispresent stand against distress of mind and body most courageously.
The fair Volumnia, being one of those sprightly girls who cannot longcontinue silent without imminent peril of seizure by the dragonBoredom, soon indicates the approach of that monster with a series ofundisguisable yawns. Finding it impossible to suppress those yawns byany other process than conversation, she compliments Mrs. Rouncewellon her son, declaring that he positively is one of the finest figuresshe ever saw and as soldierly a looking person, she should think, aswhat's his name, her favourite Life Guardsman--the man she dotes on,the dearest of creatures--who was killed at Waterloo.
Sir Leicester hears this tribute with so much surprise and staresabout him in such a confused way that Mrs. Rouncewell feels itnecessary to explain.
"Miss Dedlock don't speak of my eldest son, Sir Leicester, but myyoungest. I have found him. He has come home."
Sir Leicester breaks silence with a harsh cry. "George? Your sonGeorge come home, Mrs. Rouncewell?"
The old housekeeper wipes her eyes. "Thank God. Yes, Sir Leicester."
Does this discovery of some one lost, this return of some one so longgone, come upon him as a strong confirmation of his hopes? Does hethink, "Shall I not, with the aid I have, recall her safely afterthis, there being fewer hours in her case than there are years inhis?"
It is of no use entreating him; he is determined to speak now, and hedoes. In a thick crowd of sounds, but still intelligibly enough to beunderstood.
"Why did you not tell me, Mrs. Rouncewell?"
"It happened only yesterday, Sir Leicester, and I doubted your beingwell enough to be talked to of such things."
Besides, the giddy Volumnia now remembers with her little scream thatnobody was to have known of his being Mrs. Rouncewell's son and thatshe was not to have told. But Mrs. Rouncewell protests, with warmthenough to swell the stomacher, that of course she would have told SirLeicester as soon as he got better.
"Where is your son George, Mrs. Rouncewell?" asks Sir Leicester,
Mrs. Rouncewell, not a little alarmed by his disregard of thedoctor's injunctions, replies, in London.
"Where in London?"
Mrs. Rouncewell is constrained to admit that he is in the house.
"Bring him here to my room. Bring him directly."
The old lady can do nothing but go in search of him. Sir Leicester,with such power of movement as he has, arranges himself a little toreceive him. When he has done so, he looks out again at the fallingsleet and snow and listens again for the returning steps. A quantityof straw has been tumbled down in the street to deaden the noisesthere, and she might be driven to the door perhaps without hishearing wheels.
He is lying thus, apparently forgetful of his newer and minorsurprise, when the housekeeper returns, accompanied by her trooperson. Mr. George approaches softly to the bedside, makes his bow,squares his chest, and stands, with his face flushed, very heartilyashamed of himself.
"Good heaven, and it is really George Rouncewell!" exclaims SirLeicester. "Do you remember me, George?"
The trooper needs to look at him and to separate this sound from thatsound before he knows what he has said, but doing this and being alittle helped by his mother, he replies, "I must have a very badmemory, indeed, Sir Leicester, if I failed to remember you."
"When I look at you, George Rouncewell," Sir Leicester observes withdifficulty, "I see something of a boy at Chesney Wold--I rememberwell--very well."
He looks at the trooper until tears come into his eyes, and then helooks at the sleet and snow again.
"I ask your pardon, Sir Leicester," says the trooper, "but would youaccept of my arms to raise you up? You would lie easier, SirLeicester, if you would allow me to move you."
"If you please, George Rouncewell; if you will be so good."
The trooper takes him in his arms like a child, lightly raises him,and turns him with his face more towards the window. "Thank you. Youhave your mother's gentleness," returns Sir Leicester, "and your ownstrength. Thank you."
He signs to him with his hand not to go away. George quietly remainsat the bedside, waiting to be spoken to.
"Why did you wish for secrecy?" It takes Sir Leicester some time toask this.
"Truly I am not much to boast of, Sir Leicester, and I--I shouldstill, Sir Leicester, if you was not so indisposed--which I hope youwill not be long--I should still hope for the favour of being allowedto remain unknown in general. That involves explanations not veryhard to be guessed at, not very well timed here, and not verycreditable to myself. However opinions may differ on a variety ofsubjects, I should think it would be universally agreed, SirLeicester, that I am not much to boast of."
"You have been a soldier," observes Sir Leicester, "and a faithfulone."
George makes his military bow. "As far as that goes, Sir Leicester, Ihave done my duty under discipline, and it was the least I could do."
"You find me," says Sir Leicester, whose eyes are much attractedtowards him, "far from well, George Rouncewell."
"I am very sorry both to hear it and to see it, Sir Leicester."
"I am sure you are. No. In addition to my older malady, I have had asudden and bad attack. Something that deadens," making an endeavourto pass one hand down one side, "and confuses," touching his lips.
George, with a look of assent and sympathy, makes another bow. Thedifferent times when they were both young men (the trooper much theyounger of the two) and looked at one another down at Chesney Woldarise before them both and soften both.
Sir Leicester, evidently with a great determination to say, in hisown manner, something that is on his mind before relapsing intosilence, tries to raise himself among his pillows a little more.George, observant of the action, takes him in his arms again andplaces him as he desires to be. "Thank you, George. You are anotherself to me. You have often carried my spare gun at Chesney Wold,George. You are familiar to me in these strange circumstances, veryfamiliar." He has put Sir Leicester's sounder arm over his shoulderin lifting him up, and Sir Leicester is slow in drawing it away againas he says these words.
"I was about to add," he presently goes on, "I was about to add,respecting this attack, that it was unfortunately simultaneous with aslight misunderstanding between my Lady and myself. I do not meanthat there was any difference between us (for there has been none),but that there was a misunderstanding of certain circumstancesimportant only to ourselves, which deprives me, for a little while,of my Lady's society. She has found it necessary to make a journey--Itrust will shortly return. Volumnia, do I make myself intelligible?The words are not quite under my command in the manner of pronouncingthem."
Volumnia understands him perfectly, and in truth he delivers himselfwith far greater plainness than could have been supposed possible aminute ago. The effort by which he does so is written in the anxiousand labouring expression of his face. Nothing but the strength of hispurpose enables him to make it.
"Therefore, Volumnia, I desire to say in your presence--and in thepresence of my old retainer and friend, Mrs. Rouncewell, whose truthand fidelity no one can question, and in the presence of her sonGeorge, who comes back like a familiar recollection of my youth inthe home of my ancestors at Chesney Wold--in case I should relapse,in case I should not recover, in case I should lose both my speechand the power of writing, though I hope for better things--"
The old housekeeper weeping silently; Volumnia in the greatestagitation, with the freshest bloom on her cheeks; the trooper withhis arms folded and his head a little bent, respectfully attentive.
"Therefore I desire to say, and to call you all towitness--beginning, Volumnia, with yourself, most solemnly--that I amon unaltered terms with Lady Dedlock. That I assert no cause whateverof complaint against her. That I have ever had the strongestaffection for her, and that I retain it undiminished. Say this toherself, and to every one. If you ever say less than this, you willbe guilty of deliberate falsehood to me."
Volumnia tremblingly protests that she will observe his injunctionsto the letter.
"My Lady is too high in position, too handsome, too accomplished, toosuperior in most respects to the best of those by whom she issurrounded, not to have her enemies and traducers, I dare say. Let itbe known to them, as I make it known to you, that being of soundmind, memory, and understanding, I revoke no disposition I have madein her favour. I abridge nothing I have ever bestowed upon her. I amon unaltered terms with her, and I recall--having the full power todo it if I were so disposed, as you see--no act I have done for heradvantage and happiness."
His formal array of words might have at any other time, as it hasoften had, something ludicrous in it, but at this time it is seriousand affecting. His noble earnestness, his fidelity, his gallantshielding of her, his generous conquest of his own wrong and his ownpride for her sake, are simply honourable, manly, and true. Nothingless worthy can be seen through the lustre of such qualities in thecommonest mechanic, nothing less worthy can be seen in the best-borngentleman. In such a light both aspire alike, both rise alike, bothchildren of the dust shine equally.
Overpowered by his exertions, he lays his head back on his pillowsand closes his eyes for not more than a minute, when he again resumeshis watching of the weather and his attention to the muffled sounds.In the rendering of those little services, and in the manner of theiracceptance, the trooper has become installed as necessary to him.Nothing has been said, but it is quite understood. He falls a step ortwo backward to be out of sight and mounts guard a little behind hismother's chair.
The day is now beginning to decline. The mist and the sleet intowhich the snow has all resolved itself are darker, and the blazebegins to tell more vividly upon the room walls and furniture. Thegloom augments; the bright gas springs up in the streets; and thepertinacious oil lamps which yet hold their ground there, with theirsource of life half frozen and half thawed, twinkle gaspingly likefiery fish out of water--as they are. The world, which has beenrumbling over the straw and pulling at the bell, "to inquire," beginsto go home, begins to dress, to dine, to discuss its dear friend withall the last new modes, as already mentioned.
Now does Sir Leicester become worse, restless, uneasy, and in greatpain. Volumnia, lighting a candle (with a predestined aptitude fordoing something objectionable), is bidden to put it out again, for itis not yet dark enough. Yet it is very dark too, as dark as it willbe all night. By and by she tries again. No! Put it out. It is notdark enough yet.
His old housekeeper is the first to understand that he is striving touphold the fiction with himself that it is not growing late.
"Dear Sir Leicester, my honoured master," she softly whispers, "Imust, for your own good, and my duty, take the freedom of begging andpraying that you will not lie here in the lone darkness watching andwaiting and dragging through the time. Let me draw the curtains, andlight the candles, and make things more comfortable about you. Thechurch-clocks will strike the hours just the same, Sir Leicester, andthe night will pass away just the same. My Lady will come back, justthe same."
"I know it, Mrs. Rouncewell, but I am weak--and she has been so longgone."
"Not so very long, Sir Leicester. Not twenty-four hours yet."
"But that is a long time. Oh, it is a long time!"
He says it with a groan that wrings her heart.
She knows that this is not a period for bringing the rough light uponhim; she thinks his tears too sacred to be seen, even by her.Therefore she sits in the darkness for a while without a word, thengently begins to move about, now stirring the fire, now standing atthe dark window looking out. Finally he tells her, with recoveredself-command, "As you say, Mrs. Rouncewell, it is no worse for beingconfessed. It is getting late, and they are not come. Light theroom!" When it is lighted and the weather shut out, it is only leftto him to listen.
But they find that however dejected and ill he is, he brightens whena quiet pretence is made of looking at the fires in her rooms andbeing sure that everything is ready to receive her. Poor pretence asit is, these allusions to her being expected keep up hope within him.
Midnight comes, and with it the same blank. The carriages in thestreets are few, and other late sounds in that neighbourhood thereare none, unless a man so very nomadically drunk as to stray into thefrigid zone goes brawling and bellowing along the pavement. Upon thiswintry night it is so still that listening to the intense silence islike looking at intense darkness. If any distant sound be audible inthis case, it departs through the gloom like a feeble light in that,and all is heavier than before.
The corporation of servants are dismissed to bed (not unwilling togo, for they were up all last night), and only Mrs. Rouncewell andGeorge keep watch in Sir Leicester's room. As the night lags tardilyon--or rather when it seems to stop altogether, at between two andthree o'clock--they find a restless craving on him to know more aboutthe weather, now he cannot see it. Hence George, patrolling regularlyevery half-hour to the rooms so carefully looked after, extends hismarch to the hall-door, looks about him, and brings back the bestreport he can make of the worst of nights, the sleet still fallingand even the stone footways lying ankle-deep in icy sludge.
Volumnia, in her room up a retired landing on the staircase--thesecond turning past the end of the carving and gilding, a cousinlyroom containing a fearful abortion of a portrait of Sir Leicesterbanished for its crimes, and commanding in the day a solemn yardplanted with dried-up shrubs like antediluvian specimens of blacktea--is a prey to horrors of many kinds. Not last nor least amongthem, possibly, is a horror of what may befall her little income inthe event, as she expresses it, "of anything happening" to SirLeicester. Anything, in this sense, meaning one thing only; and thatthe last thing that can happen to the consciousness of any baronet inthe known world.
An effect of these horrors is that Volumnia finds she cannot go tobed in her own room or sit by the fire in her own room, but must comeforth with her fair head tied up in a profusion of shawl, and herfair form enrobed in drapery, and parade the mansion like a ghost,particularly haunting the rooms, warm and luxurious, prepared for onewho still does not return. Solitude under such circumstances beingnot to be thought of, Volumnia is attended by her maid, who,impressed from her own bed for that purpose, extremely cold, verysleepy, and generally an injured maid as condemned by circumstancesto take office with a cousin, when she had resolved to be maid tonothing less than ten thousand a year, has not a sweet expression ofcountenance.
The periodical visits of the trooper to these rooms, however, in thecourse of his patrolling is an assurance of protection and companyboth to mistress and maid, which renders them very acceptable in thesmall hours of the night. Whenever he is heard advancing, they bothmake some little decorative preparation to receive him; at othertimes they divide their watches into short scraps of oblivion anddialogues not wholly free from acerbity, as to whether Miss Dedlock,sitting with her feet upon the fender, was or was not falling intothe fire when rescued (to her great displeasure) by her guardiangenius the maid.
"How is Sir Leicester now, Mr. George?" inquires Volumnia, adjustingher cowl over her head.
"Why, Sir Leicester is much the same, miss. He is very low and ill,and he even wanders a little sometimes."
"Has he asked for me?" inquires Volumnia tenderly.
"Why, no, I can't say he has, miss. Not within my hearing, that is tosay."
"This is a truly sad time, Mr. George."
"It is indeed, miss. Hadn't you better go to bed?"
"You had a deal better go to bed, Miss Dedlock," quoth the maidsharply.
But Volumnia answers No! No! She may be asked for, she may be wantedat a moment's notice. She never should forgive herself "if anythingwas to happen" and she was not on the spot. She declines to enter onthe question, mooted by the maid, how the spot comes to be there, andnot in her room (which is nearer to Sir Leicester's), but staunchlydeclares that on the spot she will remain. Volumnia further makes amerit of not having "closed an eye"--as if she had twenty orthirty--though it is hard to reconcile this statement with her havingmost indisputably opened two within five minutes.
But when it comes to four o'clock, and still the same blank,Volumnia's constancy begins to fail her, or rather it begins tostrengthen, for she now considers that it is her duty to be ready forthe morrow, when much may be expected of her, that, in fact,howsoever anxious to remain upon the spot, it may be required of her,as an act of self-devotion, to desert the spot. So when the trooperreappears with his, "Hadn't you better go to bed, miss?" and when themaid protests, more sharply than before, "You had a deal better go tobed, Miss Dedlock!" she meekly rises and says, "Do with me what youthink best!"
Mr. George undoubtedly thinks it best to escort her on his arm to thedoor of her cousinly chamber, and the maid as undoubtedly thinks itbest to hustle her into bed with mighty little ceremony. Accordingly,these steps are taken; and now the trooper, in his rounds, has thehouse to himself.
There is no improvement in the weather. From the portico, from theeaves, from the parapet, from every ledge and post and pillar, dripsthe thawed snow. It has crept, as if for shelter, into the lintels ofthe great door--under it, into the corners of the windows, into everychink and crevice of retreat, and there wastes and dies. It isfalling still; upon the roof, upon the skylight, even through theskylight, and drip, drip, drip, with the regularity of the Ghost'sWalk, on the stone floor below.
The trooper, his old recollections awakened by the solitary grandeurof a great house--no novelty to him once at Chesney Wold--goes up thestairs and through the chief rooms, holding up his light at arm'slength. Thinking of his varied fortunes within the last few weeks,and of his rustic boyhood, and of the two periods of his life sostrangely brought together across the wide intermediate space;thinking of the murdered man whose image is fresh in his mind;thinking of the lady who has disappeared from these very rooms andthe tokens of whose recent presence are all here; thinking of themaster of the house upstairs and of the foreboding, "Who will tellhim!" he looks here and looks there, and reflects how he MIGHT seesomething now, which it would tax his boldness to walk up to, lay hishand upon, and prove to be a fancy. But it is all blank, blank as thedarkness above and below, while he goes up the great staircase again,blank as the oppressive silence.
"All is still in readiness, George Rouncewell?"
"Quite orderly and right, Sir Leicester."
"No word of any kind?"
The trooper shakes his head.
"No letter that can possibly have been overlooked?"
But he knows there is no such hope as that and lays his head downwithout looking for an answer.
Very familiar to him, as he said himself some hours ago, GeorgeRouncewell lifts him into easier positions through the long remainderof the blank wintry night, and equally familiar with his unexpressedwish, extinguishes the light and undraws the curtains at the firstlate break of day. The day comes like a phantom. Cold, colourless,and vague, it sends a warning streak before it of a deathlike hue, asif it cried out, "Look what I am bringing you who watch there! Whowill tell him!"



CHAPTER LIX
Esther's Narrative

It was three o'clock in the morning when the houses outside Londondid at last begin to exclude the country and to close us in withstreets. We had made our way along roads in a far worse conditionthan when we had traversed them by daylight, both the fall and thethaw having lasted ever since; but the energy of my companion neverslackened. It had only been, as I thought, of less assistance thanthe horses in getting us on, and it had often aided them. They hadstopped exhausted half-way up hills, they had been driven throughstreams of turbulent water, they had slipped down and becomeentangled with the harness; but he and his little lantern had beenalways ready, and when the mishap was set right, I had never heardany variation in his cool, "Get on, my lads!"
The steadiness and confidence with which he had directed our journeyback I could not account for. Never wavering, he never even stoppedto make an inquiry until we were within a few miles of London. A veryfew words, here and there, were then enough for him; and thus wecame, at between three and four o'clock in the morning, intoIslington.
I will not dwell on the suspense and anxiety with which I reflectedall this time that we were leaving my mother farther and fartherbehind every minute. I think I had some strong hope that he must beright and could not fail to have a satisfactory object in followingthis woman, but I tormented myself with questioning it and discussingit during the whole journey. What was to ensue when we found her andwhat could compensate us for this loss of time were questions alsothat I could not possibly dismiss; my mind was quite tortured by longdwelling on such reflections when we stopped.
We stopped in a high-street where there was a coach-stand. Mycompanion paid our two drivers, who were as completely covered withsplashes as if they had been dragged along the roads like thecarriage itself, and giving them some brief direction where to takeit, lifted me out of it and into a hackney-coach he had chosen fromthe rest.
"Why, my dear!" he said as he did this. "How wet you are!"
I had not been conscious of it. But the melted snow had found its wayinto the carriage, and I had got out two or three times when a fallenhorse was plunging and had to be got up, and the wet had penetratedmy dress. I assured him it was no matter, but the driver, who knewhim, would not be dissuaded by me from running down the street to hisstable, whence he brought an armful of clean dry straw. They shook itout and strewed it well about me, and I found it warm andcomfortable.
"Now, my dear," said Mr. Bucket, with his head in at the window afterI was shut up. "We're a-going to mark this person down. It may take alittle time, but you don't mind that. You're pretty sure that I'vegot a motive. Ain't you?"
I little thought what it was, little thought in how short a time Ishould understand it better, but I assured him that I had confidencein him.
"So you may have, my dear," he returned. "And I tell you what! If youonly repose half as much confidence in me as I repose in you afterwhat I've experienced of you, that'll do. Lord! You're no trouble atall. I never see a young woman in any station of society--and I'veseen many elevated ones too--conduct herself like you have conductedyourself since you was called out of your bed. You're a pattern, youknow, that's what you are," said Mr. Bucket warmly; "you're apattern."
I told him I was very glad, as indeed I was, to have been nohindrance to him, and that I hoped I should be none now.
"My dear," he returned, "when a young lady is as mild as she's game,and as game as she's mild, that's all I ask, and more than I expect.She then becomes a queen, and that's about what you are yourself."
With these encouraging words--they really were encouraging to meunder those lonely and anxious circumstances--he got upon the box,and we once more drove away. Where we drove I neither knew then norhave ever known since, but we appeared to seek out the narrowest andworst streets in London. Whenever I saw him directing the driver, Iwas prepared for our descending into a deeper complication of suchstreets, and we never failed to do so.
Sometimes we emerged upon a wider thoroughfare or came to a largerbuilding than the generality, well lighted. Then we stopped atoffices like those we had visited when we began our journey, and Isaw him in consultation with others. Sometimes he would get down byan archway or at a street corner and mysteriously show the light ofhis little lantern. This would attract similar lights from variousdark quarters, like so many insects, and a fresh consultation wouldbe held. By degrees we appeared to contract our search withinnarrower and easier limits. Single police-officers on duty could nowtell Mr. Bucket what he wanted to know and point to him where to go.At last we stopped for a rather long conversation between him and oneof these men, which I supposed to be satisfactory from his manner ofnodding from time to time. When it was finished he came to me lookingvery busy and very attentive.
"Now, Miss Summerson," he said to me, "you won't be alarmed whatevercomes off, I know. It's not necessary for me to give you any furthercaution than to tell you that we have marked this person down andthat you may be of use to me before I know it myself. I don't like toask such a thing, my dear, but would you walk a little way?"
Of course I got out directly and took his arm.
"It ain't so easy to keep your feet," said Mr. Bucket, "but taketime."
Although I looked about me confusedly and hurriedly as we crossed thestreet, I thought I knew the place. "Are we in Holborn?" I asked him.
"Yes," said Mr. Bucket. "Do you know this turning?"
"It looks like Chancery Lane."
"And was christened so, my dear," said Mr. Bucket.
We turned down it, and as we went shuffling through the sleet, Iheard the clocks strike half-past five. We passed on in silence andas quickly as we could with such a foot-hold, when some one comingtowards us on the narrow pavement, wrapped in a cloak, stopped andstood aside to give me room. In the same moment I heard anexclamation of wonder and my own name from Mr. Woodcourt. I knew hisvoice very well.
It was so unexpected and so--I don't know what to call it, whetherpleasant or painful--to come upon it after my feverish wanderingjourney, and in the midst of the night, that I could not keep backthe tears from my eyes. It was like hearing his voice in a strangecountry.
"My dear Miss Summerson, that you should be out at this hour, and insuch weather!"
He had heard from my guardian of my having been called away on someuncommon business and said so to dispense with any explanation. Itold him that we had but just left a coach and were going--but then Iwas obliged to look at my companion.
"Why, you see, Mr. Woodcourt"--he had caught the name from me--"weare a-going at present into the next street. Inspector Bucket."
Mr. Woodcourt, disregarding my remonstrances, had hurriedly taken offhis cloak and was putting it about me. "That's a good move, too,"said Mr. Bucket, assisting, "a very good move."
"May I go with you?" said Mr. Woodcourt. I don't know whether to meor to my companion.
"Why, Lord!" exclaimed Mr. Bucket, taking the answer on himself. "Ofcourse you may."
It was all said in a moment, and they took me between them, wrappedin the cloak.
"I have just left Richard," said Mr. Woodcourt. "I have been sittingwith him since ten o'clock last night."
"Oh, dear me, he is ill!"
"No, no, believe me; not ill, but not quite well. He was depressedand faint--you know he gets so worried and so worn sometimes--and Adasent to me of course; and when I came home I found her note and camestraight here. Well! Richard revived so much after a little while,and Ada was so happy and so convinced of its being my doing, thoughGod knows I had little enough to do with it, that I remained with himuntil he had been fast asleep some hours. As fast asleep as she isnow, I hope!"
His friendly and familiar way of speaking of them, his unaffecteddevotion to them, the grateful confidence with which I knew he hadinspired my darling, and the comfort he was to her; could I separateall this from his promise to me? How thankless I must have been if ithad not recalled the words he said to me when he was so moved by thechange in my appearance: "I will accept him as a trust, and it shallbe a sacred one!"
We now turned into another narrow street. "Mr. Woodcourt," said Mr.Bucket, who had eyed him closely as we came along, "our businesstakes us to a law-stationer's here, a certain Mr. Snagsby's. What,you know him, do you?" He was so quick that he saw it in an instant.
"Yes, I know a little of him and have called upon him at this place."
"Indeed, sir?" said Mr. Bucket. "Then you will be so good as to letme leave Miss Summerson with you for a moment while I go and havehalf a word with him?"
The last police-officer with whom he had conferred was standingsilently behind us. I was not aware of it until he struck in on mysaying I heard some one crying.
"Don't be alarmed, miss," he returned. "It's Snagsby's servant."
"Why, you see," said Mr. Bucket, "the girl's subject to fits, and has'em bad upon her to-night. A most contrary circumstance it is, for Iwant certain information out of that girl, and she must be brought toreason somehow."
"At all events, they wouldn't be up yet if it wasn't for her, Mr.Bucket," said the other man. "She's been at it pretty well all night,sir."
"Well, that's true," he returned. "My light's burnt out. Show yours amoment."
All this passed in a whisper a door or two from the house in which Icould faintly hear crying and moaning. In the little round of lightproduced for the purpose, Mr. Bucket went up to the door and knocked.The door was opened after he had knocked twice, and he went in,leaving us standing in the street.
"Miss Summerson," said Mr. Woodcourt, "if without obtruding myself onyour confidence I may remain near you, pray let me do so."
"You are truly kind," I answered. "I need wish to keep no secret ofmy own from you; if I keep any, it is another's."
"I quite understand. Trust me, I will remain near you only so long asI can fully respect it."
"I trust implicitly to you," I said. "I know and deeply feel howsacredly you keep your promise."
After a short time the little round of light shone out again, and Mr.Bucket advanced towards us in it with his earnest face. "Please tocome in, Miss Summerson," he said, "and sit down by the fire. Mr.Woodcourt, from information I have received I understand you are amedical man. Would you look to this girl and see if anything can bedone to bring her round. She has a letter somewhere that Iparticularly want. It's not in her box, and I think it must be abouther; but she is so twisted and clenched up that she is difficult tohandle without hurting."
We all three went into the house together; although it was cold andraw, it smelt close too from being up all night. In the passagebehind the door stood a scared, sorrowful-looking little man in agrey coat who seemed to have a naturally polite manner and spokemeekly.
"Downstairs, if you please, Mr. Bucket," said he. "The lady willexcuse the front kitchen; we use it as our workaday sitting-room. Theback is Guster's bedroom, and in it she's a-carrying on, poor thing,to a frightful extent!"
We went downstairs, followed by Mr. Snagsby, as I soon found thelittle man to be. In the front kitchen, sitting by the fire, was Mrs.Snagsby, with very red eyes and a very severe expression of face.
"My little woman," said Mr. Snagsby, entering behind us, "towave--not to put too fine a point upon it, my dear--hostilities forone single moment in the course of this prolonged night, here isInspector Bucket, Mr. Woodcourt, and a lady."
She looked very much astonished, as she had reason for doing, andlooked particularly hard at me.
"My little woman," said Mr. Snagsby, sitting down in the remotestcorner by the door, as if he were taking a liberty, "it is notunlikely that you may inquire of me why Inspector Bucket, Mr.Woodcourt, and a lady call upon us in Cook's Court, Cursitor Street,at the present hour. I don't know. I have not the least idea. If Iwas to be informed, I should despair of understanding, and I'd rathernot be told."
He appeared so miserable, sitting with his head upon his hand, and Iappeared so unwelcome, that I was going to offer an apology when Mr.Bucket took the matter on himself.
"Now, Mr. Snagsby," said he, "the best thing you can do is to goalong with Mr. Woodcourt to look after your Guster--"
"My Guster, Mr. Bucket!" cried Mr. Snagsby. "Go on, sir, go on. Ishall be charged with that next."
"And to hold the candle," pursued Mr. Bucket without correctinghimself, "or hold her, or make yourself useful in any way you'reasked. Which there's not a man alive more ready to do, for you're aman of urbanity and suavity, you know, and you've got the sort ofheart that can feel for another. Mr. Woodcourt, would you be so goodas see to her, and if you can get that letter from her, to let mehave it as soon as ever you can?"
As they went out, Mr. Bucket made me sit down in a corner by the fireand take off my wet shoes, which he turned up to dry upon the fender,talking all the time.
"Don't you be at all put out, miss, by the want of a hospitable lookfrom Mrs. Snagsby there, because she's under a mistake altogether.She'll find that out sooner than will be agreeable to a lady of hergenerally correct manner of forming her thoughts, because I'm a-goingto explain it to her." Here, standing on the hearth with his wet hatand shawls in his hand, himself a pile of wet, he turned to Mrs.Snagsby. "Now, the first thing that I say to you, as a married womanpossessing what you may call charms, you know--'Believe Me, if AllThose Endearing,' and cetrer--you're well acquainted with the song,because it's in vain for you to tell me that you and good society arestrangers--charms--attractions, mind you, that ought to give youconfidence in yourself--is, that you've done it."
Mrs. Snagsby looked rather alarmed, relented a little and faltered,what did Mr. Bucket mean.
"What does Mr. Bucket mean?" he repeated, and I saw by his face thatall the time he talked he was listening for the discovery of theletter, to my own great agitation, for I knew then how important itmust be; "I'll tell you what he means, ma'am. Go and see Othelloacted. That's the tragedy for you."
Mrs. Snagsby consciously asked why.
"Why?" said Mr. Bucket. "Because you'll come to that if you don'tlook out. Why, at the very moment while I speak, I know what yourmind's not wholly free from respecting this young lady. But shall Itell you who this young lady is? Now, come, you're what I call anintellectual woman--with your soul too large for your body, if youcome to that, and chafing it--and you know me, and you recollectwhere you saw me last, and what was talked of in that circle. Don'tyou? Yes! Very well. This young lady is that young lady."
Mrs. Snagsby appeared to understand the reference better than I didat the time.
"And Toughey--him as you call Jo--was mixed up in the same business,and no other; and the law-writer that you know of was mixed up in thesame business, and no other; and your husband, with no more knowledgeof it than your great grandfather, was mixed up (by Mr. Tulkinghorn,deceased, his best customer) in the same business, and no other; andthe whole bileing of people was mixed up in the same business, and noother. And yet a married woman, possessing your attractions, shutsher eyes (and sparklers too), and goes and runs her delicate-formedhead against a wall. Why, I am ashamed of you! (I expected Mr.Woodcourt might have got it by this time.)"
Mrs. Snagsby shook her head and put her handkerchief to her eyes.
"Is that all?" said Mr. Bucket excitedly. "No. See what happens.Another person mixed up in that business and no other, a person in awretched state, comes here to-night and is seen a-speaking to yourmaid-servant; and between her and your maid-servant there passesa paper that I would give a hundred pound for, down. What doyou do? You hide and you watch 'em, and you pounce upon thatmaid-servant--knowing what she's subject to and what a little thingwill bring 'em on--in that surprising manner and with that severitythat, by the Lord, she goes off and keeps off, when a life may behanging upon that girl's words!"
He so thoroughly meant what he said now that I involuntarily claspedmy hands and felt the room turning away from me. But it stopped. Mr.Woodcourt came in, put a paper into his hand, and went away again.
"Now, Mrs. Snagsby, the only amends you can make," said Mr. Bucket,rapidly glancing at it, "is to let me speak a word to this young ladyin private here. And if you know of any help that you can give tothat gentleman in the next kitchen there or can think of any onething that's likelier than another to bring the girl round, do yourswiftest and best!" In an instant she was gone, and he had shut thedoor. "Now my dear, you're steady and quite sure of yourself?"
"Quite," said I.
"Whose writing is that?"
It was my mother's. A pencil-writing, on a crushed and torn piece ofpaper, blotted with wet. Folded roughly like a letter, and directedto me at my guardian's.
"You know the hand," he said, "and if you are firm enough to read itto me, do! But be particular to a word."
It had been written in portions, at different times. I read whatfollows:

   I came to the cottage with two objects. First, to see the   dear one, if I could, once more--but only to see her--not   to speak to her or let her know that I was near. The other   object, to elude pursuit and to be lost. Do not blame the   mother for her share. The assistance that she rendered me,   she rendered on my strongest assurance that it was for the   dear one's good. You remember her dead child. The men's   consent I bought, but her help was freely given.

"'I came.' That was written," said my companion, "when she restedthere. It bears out what I made of it. I was right."
The next was written at another time:

   I have wandered a long distance, and for many hours, and   I know that I must soon die. These streets! I have no   purpose but to die. When I left, I had a worse, but I am   saved from adding that guilt to the rest. Cold, wet, and   fatigue are sufficient causes for my being found dead, but   I shall die of others, though I suffer from these. It was   right that all that had sustained me should give way at   once and that I should die of terror and my conscience.

"Take courage," said Mr. Bucket. "There's only a few words more."
Those, too, were written at another time. To all appearance, almostin the dark:

   I have done all I could do to be lost. I shall be soon   forgotten so, and shall disgrace him least. I have nothing   about me by which I can be recognized. This paper I part   with now. The place where I shall lie down, if I can get   so far, has been often in my mind. Farewell. Forgive.

Mr. Bucket, supporting me with his arm, lowered me gently into mychair. "Cheer up! Don't think me hard with you, my dear, but as soonas ever you feel equal to it, get your shoes on and be ready."
I did as he required, but I was left there a long time, praying formy unhappy mother. They were all occupied with the poor girl, and Iheard Mr. Woodcourt directing them and speaking to her often. Atlength he came in with Mr. Bucket and said that as it was importantto address her gently, he thought it best that I should ask her forwhatever information we desired to obtain. There was no doubt thatshe could now reply to questions if she were soothed and not alarmed.The questions, Mr. Bucket said, were how she came by the letter, whatpassed between her and the person who gave her the letter, and wherethe person went. Holding my mind as steadily as I could to thesepoints, I went into the next room with them. Mr. Woodcourt would haveremained outside, but at my solicitation went in with us.
The poor girl was sitting on the floor where they had laid her down.They stood around her, though at a little distance, that she mighthave air. She was not pretty and looked weak and poor, but she had aplaintive and a good face, though it was still a little wild. Ikneeled on the ground beside her and put her poor head upon myshoulder, whereupon she drew her arm round my neck and burst intotears.
"My poor girl," said I, laying my face against her forehead, forindeed I was crying too, and trembling, "it seems cruel to troubleyou now, but more depends on our knowing something about this letterthan I could tell you in an hour."
She began piteously declaring that she didn't mean any harm, shedidn't mean any harm, Mrs. Snagsby!
"We are all sure of that," said I. "But pray tell me how you got it."
"Yes, dear lady, I will, and tell you true. I'll tell true, indeed,Mrs. Snagsby."
"I am sure of that," said I. "And how was it?"
"I had been out on an errand, dear lady--long after it wasdark--quite late; and when I came home, I found a common-lookingperson, all wet and muddy, looking up at our house. When she saw mecoming in at the door, she called me back and said did I live here.And I said yes, and she said she knew only one or two places abouthere, but had lost her way and couldn't find them. Oh, what shall Ido, what shall I do! They won't believe me! She didn't say any harmto me, and I didn't say any harm to her, indeed, Mrs. Snagsby!"
It was necessary for her mistress to comfort her--which she did, Imust say, with a good deal of contrition--before she could be gotbeyond this.
"She could not find those places," said I.
"No!" cried the girl, shaking her head. "No! Couldn't find them. Andshe was so faint, and lame, and miserable, Oh so wretched, that ifyou had seen her, Mr. Snagsby, you'd have given her half a crown, Iknow!"
"Well, Guster, my girl," said he, at first not knowing what to say."I hope I should."
"And yet she was so well spoken," said the girl, looking at me withwide open eyes, "that it made a person's heart bleed. And so she saidto me, did I know the way to the burying ground? And I asked herwhich burying ground. And she said, the poor burying ground. And so Itold her I had been a poor child myself, and it was according toparishes. But she said she meant a poor burying ground not very farfrom here, where there was an archway, and a step, and an iron gate."
As I watched her face and soothed her to go on, I saw that Mr. Bucketreceived this with a look which I could not separate from one ofalarm.
"Oh, dear, dear!" cried the girl, pressing her hair back with herhands. "What shall I do, what shall I do! She meant the buryingground where the man was buried that took the sleeping-stuff--thatyou came home and told us of, Mr. Snagsby--that frightened me so,Mrs. Snagsby. Oh, I am frightened again. Hold me!"
"You are so much better now," sald I. "Pray, pray tell me more."
"Yes I will, yes I will! But don't be angry with me, that's a dearlady, because I have been so ill."
Angry with her, poor soul!
"There! Now I will, now I will. So she said, could I tell her how tofind it, and I said yes, and I told her; and she looked at me witheyes like almost as if she was blind, and herself all waving back.And so she took out the letter, and showed it me, and said if she wasto put that in the post-office, it would be rubbed out and not mindedand never sent; and would I take it from her, and send it, and themessenger would be paid at the house. And so I said yes, if it was noharm, and she said no--no harm. And so I took it from her, and shesaid she had nothing to give me, and I said I was poor myself andconsequently wanted nothing. And so she said God bless you, andwent."
"And did she go--"
"Yes," cried the girl, anticipating the inquiry. "Yes! She went theway I had shown her. Then I came in, and Mrs. Snagsby came behind mefrom somewhere and laid hold of me, and I was frightened."
Mr. Woodcourt took her kindly from me. Mr. Bucket wrapped me up, andimmediately we were in the street. Mr. Woodcourt hesitated, but Isaid, "Don't leave me now!" and Mr. Bucket added, "You'll be betterwith us, we may want you; don't lose time!"
I have the most confused impressions of that walk. I recollect thatit was neither night nor day, that morning was dawning but thestreet-lamps were not yet put out, that the sleet was still fallingand that all the ways were deep with it. I recollect a few chilledpeople passing in the streets. I recollect the wet house-tops, theclogged and bursting gutters and water-spouts, the mounds ofblackened ice and snow over which we passed, the narrowness of thecourts by which we went. At the same time I remember that the poorgirl seemed to be yet telling her story audibly and plainly in myhearing, that I could feel her resting on my arm, that the stainedhouse-fronts put on human shapes and looked at me, that greatwater-gates seemed to be opening and closing in my head or in theair, and that the unreal things were more substantial than the real.
At last we stood under a dark and miserable covered way, where onelamp was burning over an iron gate and where the morning faintlystruggled in. The gate was closed. Beyond it was a burial ground--adreadful spot in which the night was very slowly stirring, but whereI could dimly see heaps of dishonoured graves and stones, hemmed inby filthy houses with a few dull lights in their windows and on whosewalls a thick humidity broke out like a disease. On the step at thegate, drenched in the fearful wet of such a place, which oozed andsplashed down everywhere, I saw, with a cry of pity and horror, awoman lying--Jenny, the mother of the dead child.
I ran forward, but they stopped me, and Mr. Woodcourt entreated mewith the greatest earnestness, even with tears, before I went up tothe figure to listen for an instant to what Mr. Bucket said. I didso, as I thought. I did so, as I am sure.
"Miss Summerson, you'll understand me, if you think a moment. Theychanged clothes at the cottage."
They changed clothes at the cottage. I could repeat the words in mymind, and I knew what they meant of themselves, but I attached nomeaning to them in any other connexion.
"And one returned," said Mr. Bucket, "and one went on. And the onethat went on only went on a certain way agreed upon to deceive andthen turned across country and went home. Think a moment!"
I could repeat this in my mind too, but I had not the least idea whatit meant. I saw before me, lying on the step, the mother of the deadchild. She lay there with one arm creeping round a bar of the irongate and seeming to embrace it. She lay there, who had so latelyspoken to my mother. She lay there, a distressed, unsheltered,senseless creature. She who had brought my mother's letter, who couldgive me the only clue to where my mother was; she, who was to guideus to rescue and save her whom we had sought so far, who had come tothis condition by some means connected with my mother that I couldnot follow, and might be passing beyond our reach and help at thatmoment; she lay there, and they stopped me! I saw but did notcomprehend the solemn and compassionate look in Mr. Woodcourt's face.I saw but did not comprehend his touching the other on the breast tokeep him back. I saw him stand uncovered in the bitter air, with areverence for something. But my understanding for all this was gone.
I even heard it said between them, "Shall she go?"
"She had better go. Her hands should be the first to touch her. Theyhave a higher right than ours."
I passed on to the gate and stooped down. I lifted the heavy head,put the long dank hair aside, and turned the face. And it was mymother, cold and dead.



CHAPTER LX
Perspective

I proceed to other passages of my narrative. From the goodness of allabout me I derived such consolation as I can never think of unmoved.I have already said so much of myself, and so much still remains,that I will not dwell upon my sorrow. I had an illness, but it wasnot a long one; and I would avoid even this mention of it if I couldquite keep down the recollection of their sympathy.
I proceed to other passages of my narrative.
During the time of my illness, we were still in London, where Mrs.Woodcourt had come, on my guardian's invitation, to stay with us.When my guardian thought me well and cheerful enough to talk with himin our old way--though I could have done that sooner if he would havebelieved me--I resumed my work and my chair beside his. He hadappointed the time himself, and we were alone.
"Dame Trot," said he, receiving me with a kiss, "welcome to thegrowlery again, my dear. I have a scheme to develop, little woman. Ipropose to remain here, perhaps for six months, perhaps for a longertime--as it may be. Quite to settle here for a while, in short."
"And in the meanwhile leave Bleak House?" said I.
"Aye, my dear? Bleak House," he returned, "must learn to take care ofitself."
I thought his tone sounded sorrowful, but looking at him, I saw hiskind face lighted up by its pleasantest smile.
"Bleak House," he repeated--and his tone did NOT sound sorrowful, Ifound--"must learn to take care of itself. It is a long way from Ada,my dear, and Ada stands much in need of you."
"It's like you, guardian," said I, "to have been taking that intoconsideration for a happy surprise to both of us."
"Not so disinterested either, my dear, if you mean to extol me forthat virtue, since if you were generally on the road, you could beseldom with me. And besides, I wish to hear as much and as often ofAda as I can in this condition of estrangement from poor Rick. Not ofher alone, but of him too, poor fellow."
"Have you seen Mr. Woodcourt, this morning, guardian?"
"I see Mr. Woodcourt every morning, Dame Durden."
"Does he still say the same of Richard?"
"Just the same. He knows of no direct bodily illness that he has; onthe contrary, he believes that he has none. Yet he is not easy abouthim; who CAN be?"
My dear girl had been to see us lately every day, some times twice ina day. But we had foreseen, all along, that this would only lastuntil I was quite myself. We knew full well that her fervent heartwas as full of affection and gratitude towards her cousin John as ithad ever been, and we acquitted Richard of laying any injunctionsupon her to stay away; but we knew on the other hand that she felt ita part of her duty to him to be sparing of her visits at our house.My guardian's delicacy had soon perceived this and had tried toconvey to her that he thought she was right.
"Dear, unfortunate, mistaken Richard," said I. "When will he awakefrom his delusion!"
"He is not in the way to do so now, my dear," replied my guardian."The more he suffers, the more averse he will be to me, having mademe the principal representative of the great occasion of hissuffering."
I could not help adding, "So unreasonably!"
"Ah, Dame Trot, Dame Trot," returned my guardian, "what shall we findreasonable in Jarndyce and Jarndyce! Unreason and injustice at thetop, unreason and injustice at the heart and at the bottom, unreasonand injustice from beginning to end--if it ever has an end--howshould poor Rick, always hovering near it, pluck reason out of it? Heno more gathers grapes from thorns or figs from thistles than oldermen did in old times."
His gentleness and consideration for Richard whenever we spoke of himtouched me so that I was always silent on this subject very soon.
"I suppose the Lord Chancellor, and the Vice Chancellors, and thewhole Chancery battery of great guns would be infinitely astonishedby such unreason and injustice in one of their suitors," pursued myguardian. "When those learned gentlemen begin to raise moss-rosesfrom the powder they sow in their wigs, I shall begin to beastonished too!"
He checked himself in glancing towards the window to look where thewind was and leaned on the back of my chair instead.
"Well, well, little woman! To go on, my dear. This rock we must leaveto time, chance, and hopeful circumstance. We must not shipwreck Adaupon it. She cannot afford, and he cannot afford, the remotest chanceof another separation from a friend. Therefore I have particularlybegged of Woodcourt, and I now particularly beg of you, my dear, notto move this subject with Rick. Let it rest. Next week, next month,next year, sooner or later, he will see me with clearer eyes. I canwait."
But I had already discussed it with him, I confessed; and so, Ithought, had Mr. Woodcourt.
"So he tells me," returned my guardian. "Very good. He has made hisprotest, and Dame Durden has made hers, and there is nothing more tobe said about it. Now I come to Mrs. Woodcourt. How do you like her,my dear?"
In answer to this question, which was oddly abrupt, I said I likedher very much and thought she was more agreeable than she used to be.
"I think so too," said my guardian. "Less pedigree? Not so much ofMorgan ap--what's his name?"
That was what I meant, I acknowledged, though he was a very harmlessperson, even when we had had more of him.
"Still, upon the whole, he is as well in his native mountains," saidmy guardian. "I agree with you. Then, little woman, can I do betterfor a time than retain Mrs. Woodcourt here?"
No. And yet--
My guardian looked at me, waiting for what I had to say.
I had nothing to say. At least I had nothing in my mind that I couldsay. I had an undefined impression that it might have been better ifwe had had some other inmate, but I could hardly have explained whyeven to myself. Or, if to myself, certainly not to anybody else.
"You see," said my guardian, "our neighbourhood is in Woodcourt'sway, and he can come here to see her as often as he likes, which isagreeable to them both; and she is familiar to us and fond of you."
Yes. That was undeniable. I had nothing to say against it. I couldnot have suggested a better arrangement, but I was not quite easy inmy mind. Esther, Esther, why not? Esther, think!
"It is a very good plan indeed, dear guardian, and we could not dobetter."
"Sure, little woman?"
Quite sure. I had had a moment's time to think, since I had urgedthat duty on myself, and I was quite sure.
"Good," said my guardian. "It shall be done. Carried unanimously."
"Carried unanimously," I repeated, going on with my work.
It was a cover for his book-table that I happened to be ornamenting.It had been laid by on the night preceding my sad journey and neverresumed. I showed it to him now, and he admired it highly. After Ihad explained the pattern to him and all the great effects that wereto come out by and by, I thought I would go back to our last theme.
"You said, dear guardian, when we spoke of Mr. Woodcourt before Adaleft us, that you thought he would give a long trial to anothercountry. Have you been advising him since?"
"Yes, little woman, pretty often."
"Has he decided to do so?"
"I rather think not."
"Some other prospect has opened to him, perhaps?" said I.
"Why--yes--perhaps," returned my guardian, beginning his answer in avery deliberate manner. "About half a year hence or so, there is amedical attendant for the poor to be appointed at a certain place inYorkshire. It is a thriving place, pleasantly situated--streams andstreets, town and country, mill and moor--and seems to present anopening for such a man. I mean a man whose hopes and aims maysometimes lie (as most men's sometimes do, I dare say) above theordinary level, but to whom the ordinary level will be high enoughafter all if it should prove to be a way of usefulness and goodservice leading to no other. All generous spirits are ambitious, Isuppose, but the ambition that calmly trusts itself to such a road,instead of spasmodically trying to fly over it, is of the kind I carefor. It is Woodcourt's kind."
"And will he get this appointment?" I asked.
"Why, little woman," returned my guardian, smiling, "not being anoracle, I cannot confidently say, but I think so. His reputationstands very high; there were people from that part of the country inthe shipwreck; and strange to say, I believe the best man has thebest chance. You must not suppose it to be a fine endowment. It is avery, very commonplace affair, my dear, an appointment to a greatamount of work and a small amount of pay; but better things willgather about it, it may be fairly hoped."
"The poor of that place will have reason to bless the choice if itfalls on Mr. Woodcourt, guardian."
"You are right, little woman; that I am sure they will."
We said no more about it, nor did he say a word about the future ofBleak House. But it was the first time I had taken my seat at hisside in my mourning dress, and that accounted for it, I considered.
I now began to visit my dear girl every day in the dull dark cornerwhere she lived. The morning was my usual time, but whenever I foundI had an hour or so to spare, I put on my bonnet and bustled off toChancery Lane. They were both so glad to see me at all hours, andused to brighten up so when they heard me opening the door and comingin (being quite at home, I never knocked), that I had no fear ofbecoming troublesome just yet.
On these occasions I frequently found Richard absent. At other timeshe would be writing or reading papers in the cause at that table ofhis, so covered with papers, which was never disturbed. Sometimes Iwould come upon him lingering at the door of Mr. Vholes's office.Sometimes I would meet him in the neighbourhood lounging about andbiting his nails. I often met him wandering in Lincoln's Inn, nearthe place where I had first seen him, oh how different, howdifferent!
That the money Ada brought him was melting away with the candles Iused to see burning after dark in Mr. Vholes's office I knew verywell. It was not a large amount in the beginning, he had married indebt, and I could not fail to understand, by this time, what wasmeant by Mr. Vholes's shoulder being at the wheel--as I still heardit was. My dear made the best of housekeepers and tried hard to save,but I knew that they were getting poorer and poorer every day.
She shone in the miserable corner like a beautiful star. She adornedand graced it so that it became another place. Paler than she hadbeen at home, and a little quieter than I had thought natural whenshe was yet so cheerful and hopeful, her face was so unshadowed thatI half believed she was blinded by her love for Richard to hisruinous career.
I went one day to dine with them while I was under this impression.As I turned into Symond's Inn, I met little Miss Flite coming out.She had been to make a stately call upon the wards in Jarndyce, asshe still called them, and had derived the highest gratification fromthat ceremony. Ada had already told me that she called every Mondayat five o'clock, with one little extra white bow in her bonnet, whichnever appeared there at any other time, and with her largest reticuleof documents on her arm.
"My dear!" she began. "So delighted! How do you do! So glad to seeyou. And you are going to visit our interesting Jarndyce wards? TO besure! Our beauty is at home, my dear, and will be charmed to seeyou."
"Then Richard is not come in yet?" said I. "I am glad of that, for Iwas afraid of being a little late."
"No, he is not come in," returned Miss Flite. "He has had a long dayin court. I left him there with Vholes. You don't like Vholes, Ihope? DON'T like Vholes. Dan-gerous man!"
"I am afraid you see Richard oftener than ever now," said I.
"My dearest," returned Miss Flite, "daily and hourly. You know what Itold you of the attraction on the Chancellor's table? My dear, nextto myself he is the most constant suitor in court. He begins quite toamuse our little party. Ve-ry friendly little party, are we not?"
It was miserable to hear this from her poor mad lips, though it wasno surprise.
"In short, my valued friend," pursued Miss Flite, advancing her lipsto my ear with an air of equal patronage and mystery, "I must tellyou a secret. I have made him my executor. Nominated, constituted,and appointed him. In my will. Ye-es."
"Indeed?" said I.
"Ye-es," repeated Miss Flite in her most genteel accents, "myexecutor, administrator, and assign. (Our Chancery phrases, my love.)I have reflected that if I should wear out, he will be able to watchthat judgment. Being so very regular in his attendance."
It made me sigh to think of him.
"I did at one time mean," said Miss Flite, echoing the sigh, "tonominate, constitute, and appoint poor Gridley. Also very regular, mycharming girl. I assure you, most exemplary! But he wore out, poorman, so I have appointed his successor. Don't mention it. This is inconfidence."
She carefully opened her reticule a little way and showed me a foldedpiece of paper inside as the appointment of which she spoke.
"Another secret, my dear. I have added to my collection of birds."
"Really, Miss Flite?" said I, knowing how it pleased her to have herconfidence received with an appearance of interest.
She nodded several times, and her face became overcast and gloomy."Two more. I call them the Wards in Jarndyce. They are caged up withall the others. With Hope, Joy, Youth, Peace, Rest, Life, Dust,Ashes, Waste, Want, Ruin, Despair, Madness, Death, Cunning, Folly,Words, Wigs, Rags, Sheepskin, Plunder, Precedent, Jargon, Gammon, andSpinach!"
The poor soul kissed me with the most troubled look I had ever seenin her and went her way. Her manner of running over the names of herbirds, as if she were afraid of hearing them even from her own lips,quite chilled me.
This was not a cheering preparation for my visit, and I could havedispensed with the company of Mr. Vholes, when Richard (who arrivedwithin a minute or two after me) brought him to share our dinner.Although it was a very plain one, Ada and Richard were for someminutes both out of the room together helping to get ready what wewere to eat and drink. Mr. Vholes took that opportunity of holding alittle conversation in a low voice with me. He came to the windowwhere I was sitting and began upon Symond's Inn.
"A dull place, Miss Summerson, for a life that is not an officialone," said Mr. Vholes, smearing the glass with his black glove tomake it clearer for me.
"There is not much to see here," said I.
"Nor to hear, miss," returned Mr. Vholes. "A little music doesoccasionally stray in, but we are not musical in the law and sooneject it. I hope Mr. Jarndyce is as well as his friends could wishhim?"
I thanked Mr. Vholes and said he was quite well.
"I have not the pleasure to be admitted among the number of hisfriends myself," said Mr. Vholes, "and I am aware that the gentlemenof our profession are sometimes regarded in such quarters with anunfavourable eye. Our plain course, however, under good report andevil report, and all kinds of prejudice (we are the victims ofprejudice), is to have everything openly carried on. How do you findMr. C. looking, Miss Summerson?"
"He looks very ill. Dreadfully anxious."
"Just so," said Mr. Vholes.
He stood behind me with his long black figure reaching nearly to theceiling of those low rooms, feeling the pimples on his face as ifthey were ornaments and speaking inwardly and evenly as though therewere not a human passion or emotion in his nature.
"Mr. Woodcourt is in attendance upon Mr. C., I believe?" he resumed.
"Mr. Woodcourt is his disinterested friend," I answered.
"But I mean in professional attendance, medical attendance."
"That can do little for an unhappy mind," said I.
"Just so," said Mr. Vholes.
So slow, so eager, so bloodless and gaunt, I felt as if Richard werewasting away beneath the eyes of this adviser and there weresomething of the vampire in him.
"Miss Summerson," said Mr. Vholes, very slowly rubbing his glovedhands, as if, to his cold sense of touch, they were much the same inblack kid or out of it, "this was an ill-advised marriage of Mr.C.'s."
I begged he would excuse me from discussing it. They had been engagedwhen they were both very young, I told him (a little indignantly) andwhen the prospect before them was much fairer and brighter. WhenRichard had not yielded himself to the unhappy influence which nowdarkened his life.
"Just so," assented Mr. Vholes again. "Still, with a view toeverything being openly carried on, I will, with your permission,Miss Summerson, observe to you that I consider this a veryill-advised marriage indeed. I owe the opinion not only to Mr. C.'sconnexions, against whom I should naturally wish to protect myself,but also to my own reputation--dear to myself as a professional manaiming to keep respectable; dear to my three girls at home, for whomI am striving to realize some little independence; dear, I will evensay, to my aged father, whom it is my privilege to support."
"It would become a very different marriage, a much happier and bettermarriage, another marriage altogether, Mr. Vholes," said I, "ifRichard were persuaded to turn his back on the fatal pursuit in whichyou are engaged with him."
Mr. Vholes, with a noiseless cough--or rather gasp--into one of hisblack gloves, inclined his head as if he did not wholly dispute eventhat.
"Miss Summerson," he said, "it may be so; and I freely admit that theyoung lady who has taken Mr. C.'s name upon herself in so ill-adviseda manner--you will I am sure not quarrel with me for throwing outthat remark again, as a duty I owe to Mr. C.'s connexions--is ahighly genteel young lady. Business has prevented me from mixing muchwith general society in any but a professional character; still Itrust I am competent to perceive that she is a highly genteel younglady. As to beauty, I am not a judge of that myself, and I never didgive much attention to it from a boy, but I dare say the young ladyis equally eligible in that point of view. She is considered so (Ihave heard) among the clerks in the Inn, and it is a point more intheir way than in mine. In reference to Mr. C.'s pursuit of hisinterests--"
"Oh! His interests, Mr. Vholes!"
"Pardon me," returned Mr. Vholes, going on in exactly the same inwardand dispassionate manner. "Mr. C. takes certain interests undercertain wills disputed in the suit. It is a term we use. In referenceto Mr. C,'s pursuit of his interests, I mentioned to you, MissSummerson, the first time I had the pleasure of seeing you, in mydesire that everything should be openly carried on--I used thosewords, for I happened afterwards to note them in my diary, which isproducible at any time--I mentioned to you that Mr. C. had laid downthe principle of watching his own interests, and that when a clientof mine laid down a principle which was not of an immoral (that is tosay, unlawful) nature, it devolved upon me to carry it out. I HAVEcarried it out; I do carry it out. But I will not smooth things overto any connexion of Mr. C.'s on any account. As open as I was to Mr.Jarndyce, I am to you. I regard it in the light of a professionalduty to be so, though it can be charged to no one. I openly say,unpalatable as it may be, that I consider Mr. C.'s affairs in a verybad way, that I consider Mr. C. himself in a very bad way, and that Iregard this as an exceedingly ill-advised marriage. Am I here, sir?Yes, I thank you; I am here, Mr. C., and enjoying the pleasure ofsome agreeable conversation with Miss Summerson, for which I have tothank you very much, sir!"
He broke off thus in answer to Richard, who addressed him as he cameinto the room. By this time I too well understood Mr. Vholes'sscrupulous way of saving himself and his respectability not to feelthat our worst fears did but keep pace with his client's progress.
We sat down to dinner, and I had an opportunity of observing Richard,anxiously. I was not disturbed by Mr. Vholes (who took off his glovesto dine), though he sat opposite to me at the small table, for Idoubt if, looking up at all, he once removed his eyes from his host'sface. I found Richard thin and languid, slovenly in his dress,abstracted in his manner, forcing his spirits now and then, and atother intervals relapsing into a dull thoughtfulness. About his largebright eyes that used to be so merry there was a wanness and arestlessness that changed them altogether. I cannot use theexpression that he looked old. There is a ruin of youth which is notlike age, and into such a ruin Richard's youth and youthful beautyhad all fallen away.
He ate little and seemed indifferent what it was, showed himself tobe much more impatient than he used to be, and was quick even withAda. I thought at first that his old light-hearted manner was allgone, but it shone out of him sometimes as I had occasionally knownlittle momentary glimpses of my own old face to look out upon me fromthe glass. His laugh had not quite left him either, but it was likethe echo of a joyful sound, and that is always sorrowful.
Yet he was as glad as ever, in his old affectionate way, to have methere, and we talked of the old times pleasantly. These did notappear to be interesting to Mr. Vholes, though he occasionally made agasp which I believe was his smile. He rose shortly after dinner andsaid that with the permission of the ladies he would retire to hisoffice.
"Always devoted to business, Vholes!" cried Richard.
"Yes, Mr. C.," he returned, "the interests of clients are never to beneglected, sir. They are paramount in the thoughts of a professionalman like myself, who wishes to preserve a good name among hisfellow-practitioners and society at large. My denying myself thepleasure of the present agreeable conversation may not be whollyirrespective of your own interests, Mr. C."
Richard expressed himself quite sure of that and lighted Mr. Vholesout. On his return he told us, more than once, that Vholes was a goodfellow, a safe fellow, a man who did what he pretended to do, a verygood fellow indeed! He was so defiant about it that it struck me hehad begun to doubt Mr. Vholes.
Then he threw himself on the sofa, tired out; and Ada and I putthings to rights, for they had no other servant than the woman whoattended to the chambers. My dear girl had a cottage piano there andquietly sat down to sing some of Richard's favourites, the lamp beingfirst removed into the next room, as he complained of its hurting hiseyes.
I sat between them, at my dear girl's side, and felt very melancholylistening to her sweet voice. I think Richard did too; I think hedarkened the room for that reason. She had been singing some time,rising between whiles to bend over him and speak to him, when Mr.Woodcourt came in. Then he sat down by Richard and half playfully,half earnestly, quite naturally and easily, found out how he felt andwhere he had been all day. Presently he proposed to accompany him ina short walk on one of the bridges, as it was a moonlight airy night;and Richard readily consenting, they went out together.
They left my dear girl still sitting at the piano and me stillsitting beside her. When they were gone out, I drew my arm round herwaist. She put her left hand in mine (I was sitting on that side),but kept her right upon the keys, going over and over them withoutstriking any note.
"Esther, my dearest," she said, breaking silence, "Richard is neverso well and I am never so easy about him as when he is with AllanWoodcourt. We have to thank you for that."
I pointed out to my darling how this could scarcely be, because Mr.Woodcourt had come to her cousin John's house and had known us allthere, and because he had always liked Richard, and Richard hadalways liked him, and--and so forth.
"All true," said Ada, "but that he is such a devoted friend to us weowe to you."
I thought it best to let my dear girl have her way and to say no moreabout it. So I said as much. I said it lightly, because I felt hertrembling.
"Esther, my dearest, I want to be a good wife, a very, very good wifeindeed. You shall teach me."
I teach! I said no more, for I noticed the hand that was flutteringover the keys, and I knew that it was not I who ought to speak, thatit was she who had something to say to me.
"When I married Richard I was not insensible to what was before him.I had been perfectly happy for a long time with you, and I had neverknown any trouble or anxiety, so loved and cared for, but Iunderstood the danger he was in, dear Esther."
"I know, I know, my darling."
"When we were married I had some little hope that I might be able toconvince him of his mistake, that he might come to regard it in a newway as my husband and not pursue it all the more desperately for mysake--as he does. But if I had not had that hope, I would havemarried him just the same, Esther. Just the same!"
In the momentary firmness of the hand that was never still--afirmness inspired by the utterance of these last words, and dyingaway with them--I saw the confirmation of her earnest tones.
"You are not to think, my dearest Esther, that I fail to see what yousee and fear what you fear. No one can understand him better than Ido. The greatest wisdom that ever lived in the world could scarcelyknow Richard better than my love does."
She spoke so modestly and softly and her trembling hand expressedsuch agitation as it moved to and fro upon the silent notes! My dear,dear girl!
"I see him at his worst every day. I watch him in his sleep. I knowevery change of his face. But when I married Richard I was quitedetermined, Esther, if heaven would help me, never to show him that Igrieved for what he did and so to make him more unhappy. I want him,when he comes home, to find no trouble in my face. I want him, whenhe looks at me, to see what he loved in me. I married him to do this,and this supports me."
I felt her trembling more. I waited for what was yet to come, and Inow thought I began to know what it was.
"And something else supports me, Esther."
She stopped a minute. Stopped speaking only; her hand was still inmotion.
"I look forward a little while, and I don't know what great aid maycome to me. When Richard turns his eyes upon me then, there may besomething lying on my breast more eloquent than I have been, withgreater power than mine to show him his true course and win himback."
Her hand stopped now. She clasped me in her arms, and I clasped herin mine.
"If that little creature should fail too, Esther, I still lookforward. I look forward a long while, through years and years, andthink that then, when I am growing old, or when I am dead perhaps, abeautiful woman, his daughter, happily married, may be proud of himand a blessing to him. Or that a generous brave man, as handsome ashe used to be, as hopeful, and far more happy, may walk in thesunshine with him, honouring his grey head and saying to himself, 'Ithank God this is my father! Ruined by a fatal inheritance, andrestored through me!'"
Oh, my sweet girl, what a heart was that which beat so fast againstme!
"These hopes uphold me, my dear Esther, and I know they will. Thoughsometimes even they depart from me before a dread that arises when Ilook at Richard."
I tried to cheer my darling, and asked her what it was. Sobbing andweeping, she replied, "That he may not live to see his child."



CHAPTER LXI
A Discovery

The days when I frequented that miserable corner which my dear girlbrightened can never fade in my remembrance. I never see it, and Inever wish to see it now; I have been there only once since, but inmy memory there is a mournful glory shining on the place which willshine for ever.
Not a day passed without my going there, of course. At first I foundMr. Skimpole there, on two or three occasions, idly playing the pianoand talking in his usual vivacious strain. Now, besides my very muchmistrusting the probability of his being there without making Richardpoorer, I felt as if there were something in his careless gaiety tooinconsistent with what I knew of the depths of Ada's life. I clearlyperceived, too, that Ada shared my feelings. I therefore resolved,after much thinking of it, to make a private visit to Mr. Skimpoleand try delicately to explain myself. My dear girl was the greatconsideration that made me bold.
I set off one morning, accompanied by Charley, for Somers Town. As Iapproached the house, I was strongly inclined to turn back, for Ifelt what a desperate attempt it was to make an impression on Mr.Skimpole and how extremely likely it was that he would signallydefeat me. However, I thought that being there, I would go throughwith it. I knocked with a trembling hand at Mr. Skimpole'sdoor--literally with a hand, for the knocker was gone--and after along parley gained admission from an Irishwoman, who was in the areawhen I knocked, breaking up the lid of a water-butt with a poker tolight the fire with.
Mr. Skimpole, lying on the sofa in his room, playing the flute alittle, was enchanted to see me. Now, who should receive me, heasked. Who would I prefer for mistress of the ceremonies? Would Ihave his Comedy daughter, his Beauty daughter, or his Sentimentdaughter? Or would I have all the daughters at once in a perfectnosegay?
I replied, half defeated already, that I wished to speak to himselfonly if he would give me leave.
"My dear Miss Summerson, most joyfully! Of course," he said, bringinghis chair nearer mine and breaking into his fascinating smile, "ofcourse it's not business. Then it's pleasure!"
I said it certainly was not business that I came upon, but it was notquite a pleasant matter.
"Then, my dear Miss Summerson," said he with the frankest gaiety,"don't allude to it. Why should you allude to anything that is NOT apleasant matter? I never do. And you are a much pleasanter creature,in every point of view, than I. You are perfectly pleasant; I amimperfectly pleasant; then, if I never allude to an unpleasantmatter, how much less should you! So that's disposed of, and we willtalk of something else."
Although I was embarrassed, I took courage to intimate that I stillwished to pursue the subject.
"I should think it a mistake," said Mr. Skimpole with his airy laugh,"if I thought Miss Summerson capable of making one. But I don't!"
"Mr. Skimpole," said I, raising my eyes to his, "I have so oftenheard you say that you are unacquainted with the common affairs oflife--"
"Meaning our three banking-house friends, L, S, and who's the juniorpartner? D?" said Mr. Skimpole, brightly. "Not an idea of them!"
"--That perhaps," I went on, "you will excuse my boldness on thataccount. I think you ought most seriously to know that Richard ispoorer than he was."
"Dear me!" said Mr. Skimpole. "So am I, they tell me."
"And in very embarrassed circumstances."
"Parallel case, exactly!" said Mr. Skimpole with a delightedcountenance.
"This at present naturally causes Ada much secret anxiety, and as Ithink she is less anxious when no claims are made upon her byvisitors, and as Richard has one uneasiness always heavy on his mind,it has occurred to me to take the liberty of saying that--if youwould--not--"
I was coming to the point with great difficulty when he took me byboth hands and with a radiant face and in the liveliest wayanticipated it.
"Not go there? Certainly not, my dear Miss Summerson, most assuredlynot. Why SHOULD I go there? When I go anywhere, I go for pleasure. Idon't go anywhere for pain, because I was made for pleasure. Paincomes to ME when it wants me. Now, I have had very little pleasure atour dear Richard's lately, and your practical sagacity demonstrateswhy. Our young friends, losing the youthful poetry which was once socaptivating in them, begin to think, 'This is a man who wantspounds.' So I am; I always want pounds; not for myself, but becausetradespeople always want them of me. Next, our young friends begin tothink, becoming mercenary, 'This is the man who HAD pounds, whoborrowed them,' which I did. I always borrow pounds. So our youngfriends, reduced to prose (which is much to be regretted), degeneratein their power of imparting pleasure to me. Why should I go to seethem, therefore? Absurd!"
Through the beaming smile with which he regarded me as he reasonedthus, there now broke forth a look of disinterested benevolence quiteastonishing.
"Besides," he said, pursuing his argument in his tone oflight-hearted conviction, "if I don't go anywhere for pain--whichwould be a perversion of the intention of my being, and a monstrousthing to do--why should I go anywhere to be the cause of pain? If Iwent to see our young friends in their present ill-regulated state ofmind, I should give them pain. The associations with me would bedisagreeable. They might say, 'This is the man who had pounds and whocan't pay pounds,' which I can't, of course; nothing could be moreout of the question! Then kindness requires that I shouldn't go nearthem--and I won't."
He finished by genially kissing my hand and thanking me. Nothing butMiss Summerson's fine tact, he said, would have found this out forhim.
I was much disconcerted, but I reflected that if the main point weregained, it mattered little how strangely he perverted everythingleading to it. I had determined to mention something else, however,and I thought I was not to be put off in that.
"Mr. Skimpole," said I, "I must take the liberty of saying before Iconclude my visit that I was much surprised to learn, on the bestauthority, some little time ago, that you knew with whom that poorboy left Bleak House and that you accepted a present on thatoccasion. I have not mentioned it to my guardian, for I fear it wouldhurt him unnecessarily; but I may say to you that I was muchsurprised."
"No? Really surprised, my dear Miss Summerson?" he returnedinquiringly, raising his pleasant eyebrows.
"Greatly surprised."
He thought about it for a little while with a highly agreeable andwhimsical expression of face, then quite gave it up and said in hismost engaging manner, "You know what a child I am. Why surprised?"
I was reluctant to enter minutely into that question, but as hebegged I would, for he was really curious to know, I gave him tounderstand in the gentlest words I could use that his conduct seemedto involve a disregard of several moral obligations. He was muchamused and interested when he heard this and said, "No, really?" withingenuous simplicity.
"You know I don't intend to be responsible. I never could do it.Responsibility is a thing that has always been above me--or belowme," said Mr. Skimpole. "I don't even know which; but as I understandthe way in which my dear Miss Summerson (always remarkable for herpractical good sense and clearness) puts this case, I should imagineit was chiefly a question of money, do you know?"
I incautiously gave a qualified assent to this.
"Ah! Then you see," said Mr. Skimpole, shaking his head, "I amhopeless of understanding it."
I suggested, as I rose to go, that it was not right to betray myguardian's confidence for a bribe.
"My dear Miss Summerson," he returned with a candid hilarity that wasall his own, "I can't be bribed."
"Not by Mr. Bucket?" said I.
"No," said he. "Not by anybody. I don't attach any value to money. Idon't care about it, I don't know about it, I don't want it, I don'tkeep it--it goes away from me directly. How can I be bribed?"
I showed that I was of a different opinion, though I had not thecapacity for arguing the question.
"On the contrary," said Mr. Skimpole, "I am exactly the man to beplaced in a superior position in such a case as that. I am above therest of mankind in such a case as that. I can act with philosophy insuch a case as that. I am not warped by prejudices, as an Italianbaby is by bandages. I am as free as the air. I feel myself as farabove suspicion as Caesar's wife."
Anything to equal the lightness of his manner and the playfulimpartiality with which he seemed to convince himself, as he tossedthe matter about like a ball of feathers, was surely never seen inanybody else!
"Observe the case, my dear Miss Summerson. Here is a boy receivedinto the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to.The boy being in bed, a man arrives--like the house that Jack built.Here is the man who demands the boy who is received into the houseand put to bed in a state that I strongly object to. Here is abank-note produced by the man who demands the boy who is receivedinto the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to.Here is the Skimpole who accepts the bank-note produced by the manwho demands the boy who is received into the house and put to bed ina state that I strongly object to. Those are the facts. Very well.Should the Skimpole have refused the note? WHY should the Skimpolehave refused the note? Skimpole protests to Bucket, 'What's this for?I don't understand it, it is of no use to me, take it away.' Bucketstill entreats Skimpole to accept it. Are there reasons why Skimpole,not being warped by prejudices, should accept it? Yes. Skimpoleperceives them. What are they? Skimpole reasons with himself, this isa tamed lynx, an active police-officer, an intelligent man, a personof a peculiarly directed energy and great subtlety both of conceptionand execution, who discovers our friends and enemies for us when theyrun away, recovers our property for us when we are robbed, avenges uscomfortably when we are murdered. This active police-officer andintelligent man has acquired, in the exercise of his art, a strongfaith in money; he finds it very useful to him, and he makes it veryuseful to society. Shall I shake that faith in Bucket because I wantit myself; shall I deliberately blunt one of Bucket's weapons; shallI positively paralyse Bucket in his next detective operation? Andagain. If it is blameable in Skimpole to take the note, it isblameable in Bucket to offer the note--much more blameable in Bucket,because he is the knowing man. Now, Skimpole wishes to think well ofBucket; Skimpole deems it essential, in its little place, to thegeneral cohesion of things, that he SHOULD think well of Bucket. Thestate expressly asks him to trust to Bucket. And he does. And that'sall he does!"
I had nothing to offer in reply to this exposition and therefore tookmy leave. Mr. Skimpole, however, who was in excellent spirits, wouldnot hear of my returning home attended only by "Little Coavinses,"and accompanied me himself. He entertained me on the way with avariety of delightful conversation and assured me, at parting, thathe should never forget the fine tact with which I had found that outfor him about our young friends.
As it so happened that I never saw Mr. Skimpole again, I may at oncefinish what I know of his history. A coolness arose between him andmy guardian, based principally on the foregoing grounds and on hishaving heartlessly disregarded my guardian's entreaties (as weafterwards learned from Ada) in reference to Richard. His beingheavily in my guardian's debt had nothing to do with theirseparation. He died some five years afterwards and left a diarybehind him, with letters and other materials towards his life, whichwas published and which showed him to have been the victim of acombination on the part of mankind against an amiable child. It wasconsidered very pleasant reading, but I never read more of it myselfthan the sentence on which I chanced to light on opening the book. Itwas this: "Jarndyce, in common with most other men I have known, isthe incarnation of selfishness."
And now I come to a part of my story touching myself very nearlyindeed, and for which I was quite unprepared when the circumstanceoccurred. Whatever little lingerings may have now and then revived inmy mind associated with my poor old face had only revived asbelonging to a part of my life that was gone--gone like my infancy ormy childhood. I have suppressed none of my many weaknesses on thatsubject, but have written them as faithfully as my memory hasrecalled them. And I hope to do, and mean to do, the same down to thelast words of these pages, which I see now not so very far before me.
The months were gliding away, and my dear girl, sustained by thehopes she had confided in me, was the same beautiful star in themiserable corner. Richard, more worn and haggard, haunted the courtday after day, listlessly sat there the whole day long when he knewthere was no remote chance of the suit being mentioned, and becameone of the stock sights of the place. I wonder whether any of thegentlemen remembered him as he was when he first went there.
So completely was he absorbed in his fixed idea that he used to avowin his cheerful moments that he should never have breathed the freshair now "but for Woodcourt." It was only Mr. Woodcourt who couldoccasionally divert his attention for a few hours at a time and rousehim, even when he sunk into a lethargy of mind and body that alarmedus greatly, and the returns of which became more frequent as themonths went on. My dear girl was right in saying that he only pursuedhis errors the more desperately for her sake. I have no doubt thathis desire to retrieve what he had lost was rendered the more intenseby his grief for his young wife, and became like the madness of agamester.
I was there, as I have mentioned, at all hours. When I was there atnight, I generally went home with Charley in a coach; sometimes myguardian would meet me in the neighbourhood, and we would walk hometogether. One evening he had arranged to meet me at eight o'clock. Icould not leave, as I usually did, quite punctually at the time, forI was working for my dear girl and had a few stitches more to do tofinish what I was about; but it was within a few minutes of the hourwhen I bundled up my little work-basket, gave my darling my last kissfor the night, and hurried downstairs. Mr. Woodcourt went with me, asit was dusk.
When we came to the usual place of meeting--it was close by, and Mr.Woodcourt had often accompanied me before--my guardian was not there.We waited half an hour, walking up and down, but there were no signsof him. We agreed that he was either prevented from coming or that hehad come and gone away, and Mr. Woodcourt proposed to walk home withme.
It was the first walk we had ever taken together, except that veryshort one to the usual place of meeting. We spoke of Richard and Adathe whole way. I did not thank him in words for what he had done--myappreciation of it had risen above all words then--but I hoped hemight not be without some understanding of what I felt so strongly.
Arriving at home and going upstairs, we found that my guardian wasout and that Mrs. Woodcourt was out too. We were in the very sameroom into which I had brought my blushing girl when her youthfullover, now her so altered husband, was the choice of her young heart,the very same room from which my guardian and I had watched themgoing away through the sunlight in the fresh bloom of their hope andpromise.
We were standing by the opened window looking down into the streetwhen Mr. Woodcourt spoke to me. I learned in a moment that he lovedme. I learned in a moment that my scarred face was all unchanged tohim. I learned in a moment that what I had thought was pity andcompassion was devoted, generous, faithful love. Oh, too late to knowit now, too late, too late. That was the first ungrateful thought Ihad. Too late.
"When I returned," he told me, "when I came back, no richer than whenI went away, and found you newly risen from a sick bed, yet soinspired by sweet consideration for others and so free from a selfishthought--"
"Oh, Mr. Woodcourt, forbear, forbear!" I entreated him. "I do notdeserve your high praise. I had many selfish thoughts at that time,many!"
"Heaven knows, beloved of my life," said he, "that my praise is not alover's praise, but the truth. You do not know what all around yousee in Esther Summerson, how many hearts she touches and awakens,what sacred admiration and what love she wins."
"Oh, Mr. Woodcourt," cried I, "it is a great thing to win love, it isa great thing to win love! I am proud of it, and honoured by it; andthe hearing of it causes me to shed these tears of mingled joy andsorrow--joy that I have won it, sorrow that I have not deserved itbetter; but I am not free to think of yours."
I said it with a stronger heart, for when he praised me thus and whenI heard his voice thrill with his belief that what he said was true,I aspired to be more worthy of it. It was not too late for that.Although I closed this unforeseen page in my life to-night, I couldbe worthier of it all through my life. And it was a comfort to me,and an impulse to me, and I felt a dignity rise up within me that wasderived from him when I thought so.
He broke the silence.
"I should poorly show the trust that I have in the dear one who willevermore be as dear to me as now"--and the deep earnestness withwhich he said it at once strengthened me and made me weep--"if, afterher assurance that she is not free to think of my love, I urged it.Dear Esther, let me only tell you that the fond idea of you which Itook abroad was exalted to the heavens when I came home. I havealways hoped, in the first hour when I seemed to stand in any ray ofgood fortune, to tell you this. I have always feared that I shouldtell it you in vain. My hopes and fears are both fulfilled to-night.I distress you. I have said enough."
Something seemed to pass into my place that was like the angel hethought me, and I felt so sorrowful for the loss he had sustained! Iwished to help him in his trouble, as I had wished to do when heshowed that first commiseration for me.
"Dear Mr. Woodcourt," said I, "before we part to-night, something isleft for me to say. I never could say it as I wish--I nevershall--but--"
I had to think again of being more deserving of his love and hisaffliction before I could go on.
"--I am deeply sensible of your generosity, and I shall treasure itsremembrance to my dying hour. I know full well how changed I am, Iknow you are not unacquainted with my history, and I know what anoble love that is which is so faithful. What you have said to mecould have affected me so much from no other lips, for there are nonethat could give it such a value to me. It shall not be lost. It shallmake me better."
He covered his eyes with his hand and turned away his head. How couldI ever be worthy of those tears?
"If, in the unchanged intercourse we shall have together--in tendingRichard and Ada, and I hope in many happier scenes of life--you everfind anything in me which you can honestly think is better than itused to be, believe that it will have sprung up from to-night andthat I shall owe it to you. And never believe, dear dear Mr.Woodcourt, never believe that I forget this night or that while myheart beats it can be insensible to the pride and joy of having beenbeloved by you."
He took my hand and kissed it. He was like himself again, and I feltstill more encouraged.
"I am induced by what you said just now," said I, "to hope that youhave succeeded in your endeavour."
"I have," he answered. "With such help from Mr. Jarndyce as you whoknow him so well can imagine him to have rendered me, I havesucceeded."
"Heaven bless him for it," said I, giving him my hand; "and heavenbless you in all you do!"
"I shall do it better for the wish," he answered; "it will make meenter on these new duties as on another sacred trust from you."
"Ah! Richard!" I exclaimed involuntarily, "What will he do when youare gone!"
"I am not required to go yet; I would not desert him, dear MissSummerson, even if I were."
One other thing I felt it needful to touch upon before he left me. Iknew that I should not be worthier of the love I could not take if Ireserved it.
"Mr. Woodcourt," said I, "you will be glad to know from my lipsbefore I say good night that in the future, which is clear and brightbefore me, I am most happy, most fortunate, have nothing to regret ordesire."
It was indeed a glad hearing to him, he replied.
"From my childhood I have been," said I, "the object of the untiringgoodness of the best of human beings, to whom I am so bound by everytie of attachment, gratitude, and love, that nothing I could do inthe compass of a life could express the feelings of a single day."
"I share those feelings," he returned. "You speak of Mr. Jarndyce."
"You know his virtues well," said I, "but few can know the greatnessof his character as I know it. All its highest and best qualitieshave been revealed to me in nothing more brightly than in the shapingout of that future in which I am so happy. And if your highest homageand respect had not been his already--which I know they are--theywould have been his, I think, on this assurance and in the feeling itwould have awakened in you towards him for my sake."
He fervently replied that indeed indeed they would have been. I gavehim my hand again.
"Good night," I said, "Good-bye."
"The first until we meet to-morrow, the second as a farewell to thistheme between us for ever."
"Yes."
"Good night; good-bye."
He left me, and I stood at the dark window watching the street. Hislove, in all its constancy and generosity, had come so suddenly uponme that he had not left me a minute when my fortitude gave way againand the street was blotted out by my rushing tears.
But they were not tears of regret and sorrow. No. He had called methe beloved of his life and had said I would be evermore as dear tohim as I was then, and I felt as if my heart would not hold thetriumph of having heard those words. My first wild thought had diedaway. It was not too late to hear them, for it was not too late to beanimated by them to be good, true, grateful, and contented. How easymy path, how much easier than his!



CHAPTER LXII
Another Discovery

I had not the courage to see any one that night. I had not even thecourage to see myself, for I was afraid that my tears might a littlereproach me. I went up to my room in the dark, and prayed in thedark, and lay down in the dark to sleep. I had no need of any lightto read my guardian's letter by, for I knew it by heart. I took itfrom the place where I kept it, and repeated its contents by its ownclear light of integrity and love, and went to sleep with it on mypillow.
I was up very early in the morning and called Charley to come for awalk. We bought flowers for the breakfast-table, and came back andarranged them, and were as busy as possible. We were so early that Ihad a good time still for Charley's lesson before breakfast; Charley(who was not in the least improved in the old defective article ofgrammar) came through it with great applause; and we were altogethervery notable. When my guardian appeared he said, "Why, little woman,you look fresher than your flowers!" And Mrs. Woodcourt repeated andtranslated a passage from the Mewlinnwillinwodd expressive of mybeing like a mountain with the sun upon it.
This was all so pleasant that I hope it made me still more like themountain than I had been before. After breakfast I waited myopportunity and peeped about a little until I saw my guardian in hisown room--the room of last night--by himself. Then I made an excuseto go in with my housekeeping keys, shutting the door after me.
"Well, Dame Durden?" said my guardian; the post had brought himseveral letters, and he was writing. "You want money?"
"No, indeed, I have plenty in hand."
"There never was such a Dame Durden," said my guardian, "for makingmoney last."
He had laid down his pen and leaned back in his chair looking at me.I have often spoken of his bright face, but I thought I had neverseen it look so bright and good. There was a high happiness upon itwhich made me think, "He has been doing some great kindness thismorning."
"There never was," said my guardian, musing as he smiled upon me,"such a Dame Durden for making money last."
He had never yet altered his old manner. I loved it and him so muchthat when I now went up to him and took my usual chair, which wasalways put at his side--for sometimes I read to him, and sometimes Italked to him, and sometimes I silently worked by him--I hardly likedto disturb it by laying my hand on his breast. But I found I did notdisturb it at all.
"Dear guardian," said I, "I want to speak to you. Have I been remissin anything?"
"Remiss in anything, my dear!"
"Have I not been what I have meant to be since--I brought the answerto your letter, guardian?"
"You have been everything I could desire, my love."
"I am very glad indeed to hear that," I returned. "You know, you saidto me, was this the mistress of Bleak House. And I said, yes."
"Yes," said my guardian, nodding his head. He had put his arm aboutme as if there were something to protect me from and looked in myface, smiling.
"Since then," said I, "we have never spoken on the subject exceptonce."
"And then I said Bleak House was thinning fast; and so it was, mydear."
"And I said," I timidly reminded him, "but its mistress remained."
He still held me in the same protecting manner and with the samebright goodness in his face.
"Dear guardian," said I, "I know how you have felt all that hashappened, and how considerate you have been. As so much time haspassed, and as you spoke only this morning of my being so well again,perhaps you expect me to renew the subject. Perhaps I ought to do so.I will be the mistress of Bleak House when you please."
"See," he returned gaily, "what a sympathy there must be between us!I have had nothing else, poor Rick excepted--it's a largeexception--in my mind. When you came in, I was full of it. When shallwe give Bleak House its mistress, little woman?"
"When you please."
"Next month?"
"Next month, dear guardian."
"The day on which I take the happiest and best step of my life--theday on which I shall be a man more exulting and more enviable thanany other man in the world--the day on which I give Bleak House itslittle mistress--shall be next month then," said my guardian.
I put my arms round his neck and kissed him just as I had done on theday when I brought my answer.
A servant came to the door to announce Mr. Bucket, which was quiteunnecessary, for Mr. Bucket was already looking in over the servant'sshoulder. "Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson," said he, rather out ofbreath, "with all apologies for intruding, WILL you allow me to orderup a person that's on the stairs and that objects to being left therein case of becoming the subject of observations in his absence? Thankyou. Be so good as chair that there member in this direction, willyou?" said Mr. Bucket, beckoning over the banisters.
This singular request produced an old man in a black skull-cap,unable to walk, who was carried up by a couple of bearers anddeposited in the room near the door. Mr. Bucket immediately got ridof the bearers, mysteriously shut the door, and bolted it.
"Now you see, Mr. Jarndyce," he then began, putting down his hat andopening his subject with a flourish of his well-remembered finger,"you know me, and Miss Summerson knows me. This gentleman likewiseknows me, and his name is Smallweed. The discounting line is his lineprincipally, and he's what you may call a dealer in bills. That'sabout what YOU are, you know, ain't you?" said Mr. Bucket, stopping alittle to address the gentleman in question, who was exceedinglysuspicious of him.
He seemed about to dispute this designation of himself when he wasseized with a violent fit of coughing.
"Now, moral, you know!" said Mr. Bucket, improving the accident."Don't you contradict when there ain't no occasion, and you won't betook in that way. Now, Mr. Jarndyce, I address myself to you. I'vebeen negotiating with this gentleman on behalf of Sir LeicesterDedlock, Baronet, and one way and another I've been in and out andabout his premises a deal. His premises are the premises formerlyoccupied by Krook, marine store dealer--a relation of thisgentleman's that you saw in his lifetime if I don't mistake?"
My guardian replied, "Yes."
"Well! You are to understand," said Mr. Bucket, "that this gentlemanhe come into Krook's property, and a good deal of magpie propertythere was. Vast lots of waste-paper among the rest. Lord bless you,of no use to nobody!"
The cunning of Mr. Bucket's eye and the masterly manner in which hecontrived, without a look or a word against which his watchfulauditor could protest, to let us know that he stated the caseaccording to previous agreement and could say much more of Mr.Smallweed if he thought it advisable, deprived us of any merit inquite understanding him. His difficulty was increased by Mr.Smallweed's being deaf as well as suspicious and watching his facewith the closest attention.
"Among them odd heaps of old papers, this gentleman, when he comesinto the property, naturally begins to rummage, don't you see?" saidMr. Bucket.
"To which? Say that again," cried Mr. Smallweed in a shrill, sharpvoice.
"To rummage," repeated Mr. Bucket. "Being a prudent man andaccustomed to take care of your own affairs, you begin to rummageamong the papers as you have come into; don't you?"
"Of course I do," cried Mr. Smallweed.
"Of course you do," said Mr. Bucket conversationally, "and much toblame you would be if you didn't. And so you chance to find, youknow," Mr. Bucket went on, stooping over him with an air of cheerfulraillery which Mr. Smallweed by no means reciprocated, "and so youchance to find, you know, a paper with the signature of Jarndyce toit. Don't you?"
Mr. Smallweed glanced with a troubled eye at us and grudgingly noddedassent.
"And coming to look at that paper at your full leisure andconvenience--all in good time, for you're not curious to read it, andwhy should you be?--what do you find it to be but a will, you see.That's the drollery of it," said Mr. Bucket with the same lively airof recalling a joke for the enjoyment of Mr. Smallweed, who still hadthe same crest-fallen appearance of not enjoying it at all; "what doyou find it to be but a will?"
"I don't know that it's good as a will or as anything else," snarledMr. Smallweed.
Mr. Bucket eyed the old man for a moment--he had slipped and shrunkdown in his chair into a mere bundle--as if he were much disposed topounce upon him; nevertheless, he continued to bend over him with thesame agreeable air, keeping the corner of one of his eyes upon us.
"Notwithstanding which," said Mr. Bucket, "you get a little doubtfuland uncomfortable in your mind about it, having a very tender mind ofyour own."
"Eh? What do you say I have got of my own?" asked Mr. Smallweed withhis hand to his ear.
"A very tender mind."
"Ho! Well, go on," said Mr. Smallweed.
"And as you've heard a good deal mentioned regarding a celebratedChancery will case of the same name, and as you know what a cardKrook was for buying all manner of old pieces of furniter, and books,and papers, and what not, and never liking to part with 'em, andalways a-going to teach himself to read, you begin to think--and younever was more correct in your born days--'Ecod, if I don't lookabout me, I may get into trouble regarding this will.'"
"Now, mind how you put it, Bucket," cried the old man anxiously withhis hand at his ear. "Speak up; none of your brimstone tricks. Pickme up; I want to hear better. Oh, Lord, I am shaken to bits!"
Mr. Bucket had certainly picked him up at a dart. However, as soon ashe could be heard through Mr. Smallweed's coughing and his viciousejaculations of "Oh, my bones! Oh, dear! I've no breath in my body!I'm worse than the chattering, clattering, brimstone pig at home!"Mr. Bucket proceeded in the same convivial manner as before.
"So, as I happen to be in the habit of coming about your premises,you take me into your confidence, don't you?"
I think it would be impossible to make an admission with more illwill and a worse grace than Mr. Smallweed displayed when he admittedthis, rendering it perfectly evident that Mr. Bucket was the verylast person he would have thought of taking into his confidence if hecould by any possibility have kept him out of it.
"And I go into the business with you--very pleasant we are over it;and I confirm you in your well-founded fears that you will getyourself into a most precious line if you don't come out with thatthere will," said Mr. Bucket emphatically; "and accordingly youarrange with me that it shall be delivered up to this present Mr.Jarndyce, on no conditions. If it should prove to be valuable, youtrusting yourself to him for your reward; that's about where it is,ain't it?"
"That's what was agreed," Mr. Smallweed assented with the same badgrace.
"In consequence of which," said Mr. Bucket, dismissing his agreeablemanner all at once and becoming strictly business-like, "you've gotthat will upon your person at the present time, and the only thingthat remains for you to do is just to out with it!"
Having given us one glance out of the watching corner of his eye, andhaving given his nose one triumphant rub with his forefinger, Mr.Bucket stood with his eyes fastened on his confidential friend andhis hand stretched forth ready to take the paper and present it to myguardian. It was not produced without much reluctance and manydeclarations on the part of Mr. Smallweed that he was a poorindustrious man and that he left it to Mr. Jarndyce's honour not tolet him lose by his honesty. Little by little he very slowly tookfrom a breast-pocket a stained, discoloured paper which was muchsinged upon the outside and a little burnt at the edges, as if it hadlong ago been thrown upon a fire and hastily snatched off again. Mr.Bucket lost no time in transferring this paper, with the dexterity ofa conjuror, from Mr. Smallweed to Mr. Jarndyce. As he gave it to myguardian, he whispered behind his fingers, "Hadn't settled how tomake their market of it. Quarrelled and hinted about it. I laid outtwenty pound upon it. First the avaricious grandchildren split uponhim on account of their objections to his living so unreasonablylong, and then they split on one another. Lord! There ain't one ofthe family that wouldn't sell the other for a pound or two, exceptthe old lady--and she's only out of it because she's too weak in hermind to drive a bargain."
"Mr Bucket," said my guardian aloud, "whatever the worth of thispaper may be to any one, my obligations are great to you; and if itbe of any worth, I hold myself bound to see Mr. Smallweed remuneratedaccordingly."
"Not according to your merits, you know," said Mr. Bucket in friendlyexplanation to Mr. Smallweed. "Don't you be afraid of that. Accordingto its value."
"That is what I mean," said my guardian. "You may observe, Mr.Bucket, that I abstain from examining this paper myself. The plaintruth is, I have forsworn and abjured the whole business these manyyears, and my soul is sick of it. But Miss Summerson and I willimmediately place the paper in the hands of my solicitor in thecause, and its existence shall be made known without delay to allother parties interested."
"Mr. Jarndyce can't say fairer than that, you understand," observedMr. Bucket to his fellow-visitor. "And it being now made clear to youthat nobody's a-going to be wronged--which must be a great relief toYOUR mind--we may proceed with the ceremony of chairing you homeagain."
He unbolted the door, called in the bearers, wished us good morning,and with a look full of meaning and a crook of his finger at partingwent his way.
We went our way too, which was to Lincoln's Inn, as quickly aspossible. Mr. Kenge was disengaged, and we found him at his table inhis dusty room with the inexpressive-looking books and the piles ofpapers. Chairs having been placed for us by Mr. Guppy, Mr. Kengeexpressed the surprise and gratification he felt at the unusual sightof Mr. Jarndyce in his office. He turned over his double eye-glass ashe spoke and was more Conversation Kenge than ever.
"I hope," said Mr. Kenge, "that the genial influence of MissSummerson," he bowed to me, "may have induced Mr. Jarndyce," he bowedto him, "to forego some little of his animosity towards a cause andtowards a court which are--shall I say, which take their place in thestately vista of the pillars of our profession?"
"I am inclined to think," returned my guardian, "that Miss Summersonhas seen too much of the effects of the court and the cause to exertany influence in their favour. Nevertheless, they are a part of theoccasion of my being here. Mr. Kenge, before I lay this paper on yourdesk and have done with it, let me tell you how it has come into myhands."
He did so shortly and distinctly.
"It could not, sir," said Mr. Kenge, "have been stated more plainlyand to the purpose if it had been a case at law."
"Did you ever know English law, or equity either, plain and to thepurpose?" said my guardian.
"Oh, fie!" said Mr. Kenge.
At first he had not seemed to attach much importance to the paper,but when he saw it he appeared more interested, and when he hadopened and read a little of it through his eye-glass, he becameamazed. "Mr. Jarndyce," he said, looking off it, "you have perusedthis?"
"Not I!" returned my guardian.
"But, my dear sir," said Mr. Kenge, "it is a will of later date thanany in the suit. It appears to be all in the testator's handwriting.It is duly executed and attested. And even if intended to becancelled, as might possibly be supposed to be denoted by these marksof fire, it is NOT cancelled. Here it is, a perfect instrument!"
"Well!" said my guardian. "What is that to me?"
"Mr. Guppy!" cried Mr. Kenge, raising his voice. "I beg your pardon,Mr. Jarndyce."
"Sir."
"Mr. Vholes of Symond's Inn. My compliments. Jarndyce and Jarndyce.Glad to speak with him."
Mr. Guppy disappeared.
"You ask me what is this to you, Mr. Jarndyce. If you had perusedthis document, you would have seen that it reduces your interestconsiderably, though still leaving it a very handsome one, stillleaving it a very handsome one," said Mr. Kenge, waving his handpersuasively and blandly. "You would further have seen that theinterests of Mr. Richard Carstone and of Miss Ada Clare, now Mrs.Richard Carstone, are very materially advanced by it."
"Kenge," said my guardian, "if all the flourishing wealth that thesuit brought into this vile court of Chancery could fall to my twoyoung cousins, I should be well contented. But do you ask ME tobelieve that any good is to come of Jarndyce and Jarndyce?"
"Oh, really, Mr. Jarndyce! Prejudice, prejudice. My dear sir, this isa very great country, a very great country. Its system of equity is avery great system, a very great system. Really, really!"
My guardian said no more, and Mr. Vholes arrived. He was modestlyimpressed by Mr. Kenge's professional eminence.
"How do you do, Mr. Vholes? Will you be so good as to take a chairhere by me and look over this paper?"
Mr. Vholes did as he was asked and seemed to read it every word. Hewas not excited by it, but he was not excited by anything. When hehad well examined it, he retired with Mr. Kenge into a window, andshading his mouth with his black glove, spoke to him at some length.I was not surprised to observe Mr. Kenge inclined to dispute whathe said before he had said much, for I knew that no two people everdid agree about anything in Jarndyce and Jarndyce. But he seemedto get the better of Mr. Kenge too in a conversation that soundedas if it were almost composed of the words "Receiver-General,""Accountant-General," "report," "estate," and "costs." When they hadfinished, they came back to Mr. Kenge's table and spoke aloud.
"Well! But this is a very remarkable document, Mr. Vholes," said Mr.Kenge.
Mr. Vholes said, "Very much so."
"And a very important document, Mr. Vholes," said Mr. Kenge.
Again Mr. Vholes said, "Very much so."
"And as you say, Mr. Vholes, when the cause is in the paper nextterm, this document will be an unexpected and interesting feature init," said Mr. Kenge, looking loftily at my guardian.
Mr. Vholes was gratified, as a smaller practitioner striving to keeprespectable, to be confirmed in any opinion of his own by such anauthority.
"And when," asked my guardian, rising after a pause, during which Mr.Kenge had rattled his money and Mr. Vholes had picked his pimples,"when is next term?"
"Next term, Mr. Jarndyce, will be next month," said Mr. Kenge. "Ofcourse we shall at once proceed to do what is necessary with thisdocument and to collect the necessary evidence concerning it; and ofcourse you will receive our usual notification of the cause being inthe paper."
"To which I shall pay, of course, my usual attention."
"Still bent, my dear sir," said Mr. Kenge, showing us through theouter office to the door, "still bent, even with your enlarged mind,on echoing a popular prejudice? We are a prosperous community, Mr.Jarndyce, a very prosperous community. We are a great country, Mr.Jarndyce, we are a very great country. This is a great system, Mr.Jarndyce, and would you wish a great country to have a little system?Now, really, really!"
He said this at the stair-head, gently moving his right hand as if itwere a silver trowel with which to spread the cement of his words onthe structure of the system and consolidate it for a thousand ages.



CHAPTER LXIII
Steel and Iron

George's Shooting Gallery is to let, and the stock is sold off, andGeorge himself is at Chesney Wold attending on Sir Leicester in hisrides and riding very near his bridle-rein because of the uncertainhand with which he guides his horse. But not to-day is George sooccupied. He is journeying to-day into the iron country farther northto look about him.
As he comes into the iron country farther north, such fresh greenwoods as those of Chesney Wold are left behind; and coal pits andashes, high chimneys and red bricks, blighted verdure, scorchingfires, and a heavy never-lightening cloud of smoke become thefeatures of the scenery. Among such objects rides the trooper,looking about him and always looking for something he has come tofind.
At last, on the black canal bridge of a busy town, with a clang ofiron in it, and more fires and more smoke than he has seen yet, thetrooper, swart with the dust of the coal roads, checks his horse andasks a workman does he know the name of Rouncewell thereabouts.
"Why, master," quoth the workman, "do I know my own name?"
"'Tis so well known here, is it, comrade?" asks the trooper.
"Rouncewell's? Ah! You're right."
"And where might it be now?" asks the trooper with a glance beforehim.
"The bank, the factory, or the house?" the workman wants to know.
"Hum! Rouncewell's is so great apparently," mutters the trooper,stroking his chin, "that I have as good as half a mind to go backagain. Why, I don't know which I want. Should I find Mr. Rouncewellat the factory, do you think?"
"Tain't easy to say where you'd find him--at this time of the day youmight find either him or his son there, if he's in town; but hiscontracts take him away."
And which is the factory? Why, he sees those chimneys--the tallestones! Yes, he sees THEM. Well! Let him keep his eye on thosechimneys, going on as straight as ever he can, and presently he'llsee 'em down a turning on the left, shut in by a great brick wallwhich forms one side of the street. That's Rouncewell's.
The trooper thanks his informant and rides slowly on, looking abouthim. He does not turn back, but puts up his horse (and is muchdisposed to groom him too) at a public-house where some ofRouncewell's hands are dining, as the ostler tells him. Some ofRouncewell's hands have just knocked off for dinner-time and seem tobe invading the whole town. They are very sinewy and strong, areRouncewell's hands--a little sooty too.
He comes to a gateway in the brick wall, looks in, and sees a greatperplexity of iron lying about in every stage and in a vast varietyof shapes--in bars, in wedges, in sheets; in tanks, in boilers, inaxles, in wheels, in cogs, in cranks, in rails; twisted and wrenchedinto eccentric and perverse forms as separate parts of machinery;mountains of it broken up, and rusty in its age; distant furnaces ofit glowing and bubbling in its youth; bright fireworks of itshowering about under the blows of the steam-hammer; red-hot iron,white-hot iron, cold-black iron; an iron taste, an iron smell, and aBabel of iron sounds.
"This is a place to make a man's head ache too!" says the trooper,looking about him for a counting-house. "Who comes here? This is verylike me before I was set up. This ought to be my nephew, iflikenesses run in families. Your servant, sir."
"Yours, sir. Are you looking for any one?"
"Excuse me. Young Mr. Rouncewell, I believe?"
"Yes."
"I was looking for your father, sir. I wish to have a word with him."
The young man, telling him he is fortunate in his choice of a time,for his father is there, leads the way to the office where he is tobe found. "Very like me before I was set up--devilish like me!"thinks the trooper as he follows. They come to a building in the yardwith an office on an upper floor. At sight of the gentleman in theoffice, Mr. George turns very red.
"What name shall I say to my father?" asks the young man.
George, full of the idea of iron, in desperation answers "Steel," andis so presented. He is left alone with the gentleman in the office,who sits at a table with account-books before him and some sheets ofpaper blotted with hosts of figures and drawings of cunning shapes.It is a bare office, with bare windows, looking on the iron viewbelow. Tumbled together on the table are some pieces of iron,purposely broken to be tested at various periods of their service, invarious capacities. There is iron-dust on everything; and the smokeis seen through the windows rolling heavily out of the tall chimneysto mingle with the smoke from a vaporous Babylon of other chimneys.
"I am at your service, Mr. Steel," says the gentleman when hisvisitor has taken a rusty chair.
"Well, Mr. Rouncewell," George replies, leaning forward with his leftarm on his knee and his hat in his hand, and very chary of meetinghis brother's eye, "I am not without my expectations that in thepresent visit I may prove to be more free than welcome. I have servedas a dragoon in my day, and a comrade of mine that I was once ratherpartial to was, if I don't deceive myself, a brother of yours. Ibelieve you had a brother who gave his family some trouble, and ranaway, and never did any good but in keeping away?"
"Are you quite sure," returns the ironmaster in an altered voice,"that your name is Steel?"
The trooper falters and looks at him. His brother starts up, callshim by his name, and grasps him by both hands.
"You are too quick for me!" cries the trooper with the tearsspringing out of his eyes. "How do you do, my dear old fellow? Inever could have thought you would have been half so glad to see meas all this. How do you do, my dear old fellow, how do you do!"
They shake hands and embrace each other over and over again, thetrooper still coupling his "How do you do, my dear old fellow!" withhis protestation that he never thought his brother would have beenhalf so glad to see him as all this!
"So far from it," he declares at the end of a full account of whathas preceded his arrival there, "I had very little idea of makingmyself known. I thought if you took by any means forgivingly to myname I might gradually get myself up to the point of writing aletter. But I should not have been surprised, brother, if you hadconsidered it anything but welcome news to hear of me."
"We will show you at home what kind of news we think it, George,"returns his brother. "This is a great day at home, and you could nothave arrived, you bronzed old soldier, on a better. I make anagreement with my son Watt to-day that on this day twelvemonth heshall marry as pretty and as good a girl as you have seen in all yourtravels. She goes to Germany to-morrow with one of your nieces for alittle polishing up in her education. We make a feast of the event,and you will be made the hero of it."
Mr. George is so entirely overcome at first by this prospect that heresists the proposed honour with great earnestness. Being overborne,however, by his brother and his nephew--concerning whom he renews hisprotestations that he never could have thought they would have beenhalf so glad to see him--he is taken home to an elegant house in allthe arrangements of which there is to be observed a pleasant mixtureof the originally simple habits of the father and mother with such asare suited to their altered station and the higher fortunes of theirchildren. Here Mr. George is much dismayed by the graces andaccomplishments of his nieces that are and by the beauty of Rosa, hisniece that is to be, and by the affectionate salutations of theseyoung ladies, which he receives in a sort of dream. He is sorelytaken aback, too, by the dutiful behaviour of his nephew and has awoeful consciousness upon him of being a scapegrace. However, thereis great rejoicing and a very hearty company and infinite enjoyment,and Mr. George comes bluff and martial through it all, and his pledgeto be present at the marriage and give away the bride is receivedwith universal favour. A whirling head has Mr. George that night whenhe lies down in the state-bed of his brother's house to think of allthese things and to see the images of his nieces (awful all theevening in their floating muslins) waltzing, after the German manner,over his counterpane.
The brothers are closeted next morning in the ironmaster's room,where the elder is proceeding, in his clear sensible way, to show howhe thinks he may best dispose of George in his business, when Georgesqueezes his hand and stops him.
"Brother, I thank you a million times for your more than brotherlywelcome, and a million times more to that for your more thanbrotherly intentions. But my plans are made. Before I say a word asto them, I wish to consult you upon one family point. How," says thetrooper, folding his arms and looking with indomitable firmness athis brother, "how is my mother to be got to scratch me?"
"I am not sure that I understand you, George," replies theironmaster.
"I say, brother, how is my mother to be got to scratch me? She mustbe got to do it somehow."
"Scratch you out of her will, I think you mean?"
"Of course I do. In short," says the trooper, folding his arms moreresolutely yet, "I mean--TO--scratch me!"
"My dear George," returns his brother, "is it so indispensable thatyou should undergo that process?"
"Quite! Absolutely! I couldn't be guilty of the meanness of comingback without it. I should never be safe not to be off again. I havenot sneaked home to rob your children, if not yourself, brother, ofyour rights. I, who forfeited mine long ago! If I am to remain andhold up my head, I must be scratched. Come. You are a man ofcelebrated penetration and intelligence, and you can tell me how it'sto be brought about."
"I can tell you, George," replies the ironmaster deliberately, "howit is not to be brought about, which I hope may answer the purpose aswell. Look at our mother, think of her, recall her emotion when sherecovered you. Do you believe there is a consideration in the worldthat would induce her to take such a step against her favourite son?Do you believe there is any chance of her consent, to balance againstthe outrage it would be to her (loving dear old lady!) to propose it?If you do, you are wrong. No, George! You must make up your mind toremain UNscratched, I think." There is an amused smile on theironmaster's face as he watches his brother, who is pondering, deeplydisappointed. "I think you may manage almost as well as if the thingwere done, though."
"How, brother?"
"Being bent upon it, you can dispose by will of anything you have themisfortune to inherit in any way you like, you know."
"That's true!" says the trooper, pondering again. Then he wistfullyasks, with his hand on his brother's, "Would you mind mentioningthat, brother, to your wife and family?"
"Not at all."
"Thank you. You wouldn't object to say, perhaps, that although anundoubted vagabond, I am a vagabond of the harum-scarum order, andnot of the mean sort?"
The ironmaster, repressing his amused smile, assents.
"Thank you. Thank you. It's a weight off my mind," says the trooperwith a heave of his chest as he unfolds his arms and puts a hand oneach leg, "though I had set my heart on being scratched, too!"
The brothers are very like each other, sitting face to face; but acertain massive simplicity and absence of usage in the ways of theworld is all on the trooper's side.
"Well," he proceeds, throwing off his disappointment, "next and last,those plans of mine. You have been so brotherly as to propose to meto fall in here and take my place among the products of yourperseverance and sense. I thank you heartily. It's more thanbrotherly, as I said before, and I thank you heartily for it,"shaking him a long time by the hand. "But the truth is, brother, I ama--I am a kind of a weed, and it's too late to plant me in a regulargarden."
"My dear George," returns the elder, concentrating his strong steadybrow upon him and smiling confidently, "leave that to me, and let metry."
George shakes his head. "You could do it, I have not a doubt, ifanybody could; but it's not to be done. Not to be done, sir! Whereasit so falls out, on the other hand, that I am able to be of sometrifle of use to Sir Leicester Dedlock since his illness--brought onby family sorrows--and that he would rather have that help from ourmother's son than from anybody else."
"Well, my dear George," returns the other with a very slight shadeupon his open face, "if you prefer to serve in Sir LeicesterDedlock's household brigade--"
"There it is, brother," cries the trooper, checking him, with hishand upon his knee again; "there it is! You don't take kindly to thatidea; I don't mind it. You are not used to being officered; I am.Everything about you is in perfect order and discipline; everythingabout me requires to be kept so. We are not accustomed to carrythings with the same hand or to look at 'em from the same point. Idon't say much about my garrison manners because I found myselfpretty well at my ease last night, and they wouldn't be noticed here,I dare say, once and away. But I shall get on best at Chesney Wold,where there's more room for a weed than there is here; and the dearold lady will be made happy besides. Therefore I accept of SirLeicester Dedlock's proposals. When I come over next year to giveaway the bride, or whenever I come, I shall have the sense to keepthe household brigade in ambuscade and not to manoeuvre it on yourground. I thank you heartily again and am proud to think of theRouncewells as they'll be founded by you."
"You know yourself, George," says the elder brother, returning thegrip of his hand, "and perhaps you know me better than I know myself.Take your way. So that we don't quite lose one another again, takeyour way."
"No fear of that!" returns the trooper. "Now, before I turn myhorse's head homewards, brother, I will ask you--if you'll be sogood--to look over a letter for me. I brought it with me to send fromthese parts, as Chesney Wold might be a painful name just now to theperson it's written to. I am not much accustomed to correspondencemyself, and I am particular respecting this present letter because Iwant it to be both straightforward and delicate."
Herewith he hands a letter, closely written in somewhat pale ink butin a neat round hand, to the ironmaster, who reads as follows:

   Miss Esther Summerson,
   A communication having been made to me by Inspector Bucket   of a letter to myself being found among the papers of a   certain person, I take the liberty to make known to you   that it was but a few lines of instruction from abroad,   when, where, and how to deliver an enclosed letter to a   young and beautiful lady, then unmarried, in England. I   duly observed the same.
   I further take the liberty to make known to you that it   was got from me as a proof of handwriting only and that   otherwise I would not have given it up, as appearing to   be the most harmless in my possession, without being   previously shot through the heart.
   I further take the liberty to mention that if I could have   supposed a certain unfortunate gentleman to have been in   existence, I never could and never would have rested until   I had discovered his retreat and shared my last farthing   with him, as my duty and my inclination would have equally   been. But he was (officially) reported drowned, and   assuredly went over the side of a transport-ship at night   in an Irish harbour within a few hours of her arrival from   the West Indies, as I have myself heard both from officers   and men on board, and know to have been (officially)   confirmed.
   I further take the liberty to state that in my humble   quality as one of the rank and file, I am, and shall ever   continue to be, your thoroughly devoted and admiring   servant and that I esteem the qualities you possess above   all others far beyond the limits of the present dispatch.
   I have the honour to be,
   GEORGE

"A little formal," observes the elder brother, refolding it with apuzzled face.
"But nothing that might not be sent to a pattern young lady?" asksthe younger.
"Nothing at all."
Therefore it is sealed and deposited for posting among the ironcorrespondence of the day. This done, Mr. George takes a heartyfarewell of the family party and prepares to saddle and mount. Hisbrother, however, unwilling to part with him so soon, proposes toride with him in a light open carriage to the place where he willbait for the night, and there remain with him until morning, aservant riding for so much of the journey on the thoroughbred oldgrey from Chesney Wold. The offer, being gladly accepted, is followedby a pleasant ride, a pleasant dinner, and a pleasant breakfast, allin brotherly communion. Then they once more shake hands long andheartily and part, the ironmaster turning his face to the smoke andfires, and the trooper to the green country. Early in the afternoonthe subdued sound of his heavy military trot is heard on the turf inthe avenue as he rides on with imaginary clank and jingle ofaccoutrements under the old elm-trees.



CHAPTER LXIV
Esther's Narrative

Soon after I had that conversation with my guardian, he put a sealedpaper in my hand one morning and said, "This is for next month, mydear." I found in it two hundred pounds.
I now began very quietly to make such preparations as I thought werenecessary. Regulating my purchases by my guardian's taste, which Iknew very well of course, I arranged my wardrobe to please him andhoped I should be highly successful. I did it all so quietly becauseI was not quite free from my old apprehension that Ada would berather sorry and because my guardian was so quiet himself. I had nodoubt that under all the circumstances we should be married in themost private and simple manner. Perhaps I should only have to say toAda, "Would you like to come and see me married to-morrow, my pet?"Perhaps our wedding might even be as unpretending as her own, and Imight not find it necessary to say anything about it until it wasover. I thought that if I were to choose, I would like this best.
The only exception I made was Mrs. Woodcourt. I told her that I wasgoing to be married to my guardian and that we had been engaged sometime. She highly approved. She could never do enough for me and wasremarkably softened now in comparison with what she had been when wefirst knew her. There was no trouble she would not have taken to havebeen of use to me, but I need hardly say that I only allowed her totake as little as gratified her kindness without tasking it.
Of course this was not a time to neglect my guardian, and of courseit was not a time for neglecting my darling. So I had plenty ofoccupation, which I was glad of; and as to Charley, she wasabsolutely not to be seen for needlework. To surround herself withgreat heaps of it--baskets full and tables full--and do a little, andspend a great deal of time in staring with her round eyes at whatthere was to do, and persuade herself that she was going to do it,were Charley's great dignities and delights.
Meanwhile, I must say, I could not agree with my guardian on thesubject of the will, and I had some sanguine hopes of Jarndyce andJarndyce. Which of us was right will soon appear, but I certainly didencourage expectations. In Richard, the discovery gave occasion for aburst of business and agitation that buoyed him up for a little time,but he had lost the elasticity even of hope now and seemed to me toretain only its feverish anxieties. From something my guardian saidone day when we were talking about this, I understood that mymarriage would not take place until after the term-time we had beentold to look forward to; and I thought the more, for that, howrejoiced I should be if I could be married when Richard and Ada werea little more prosperous.
The term was very near indeed when my guardian was called out of townand went down into Yorkshire on Mr. Woodcourt's business. He had toldme beforehand that his presence there would be necessary. I had justcome in one night from my dear girl's and was sitting in the midst ofall my new clothes, looking at them all around me and thinking, whena letter from my guardian was brought to me. It asked me to join himin the country and mentioned by what stage-coach my place was takenand at what time in the morning I should have to leave town. It addedin a postscript that I would not be many hours from Ada.
I expected few things less than a journey at that time, but I wasready for it in half an hour and set off as appointed early nextmorning. I travelled all day, wondering all day what I could bewanted for at such a distance; now I thought it might be for thispurpose, and now I thought it might be for that purpose, but I wasnever, never, never near the truth.
It was night when I came to my journey's end and found my guardianwaiting for me. This was a great relief, for towards evening I hadbegun to fear (the more so as his letter was a very short one) thathe might be ill. However, there he was, as well as it was possible tobe; and when I saw his genial face again at its brightest and best, Isaid to myself, he has been doing some other great kindness. Not thatit required much penetration to say that, because I knew that hisbeing there at all was an act of kindness.
Supper was ready at the hotel, and when we were alone at table hesaid, "Full of curiosity, no doubt, little woman, to know why I havebrought you here?"
"Well, guardian," said I, "without thinking myself a Fatima or you aBlue Beard, I am a little curious about it."
"Then to ensure your night's rest, my love," he returned gaily, "Iwon't wait until to-morrow to tell you. I have very much wished toexpress to Woodcourt, somehow, my sense of his humanity to poorunfortunate Jo, his inestimable services to my young cousins, and hisvalue to us all. When it was decided that he should settle here, itcame into my head that I might ask his acceptance of someunpretending and suitable little place to lay his own head in. Itherefore caused such a place to be looked out for, and such a placewas found on very easy terms, and I have been touching it up for himand making it habitable. However, when I walked over it the daybefore yesterday and it was reported ready, I found that I was nothousekeeper enough to know whether things were all as they ought tobe. So I sent off for the best little housekeeper that could possiblybe got to come and give me her advice and opinion. And here she is,"said my guardian, "laughing and crying both together!"
Because he was so dear, so good, so admirable. I tried to tell himwhat I thought of him, but I could not articulate a word.
"Tut, tut!" said my guardian. "You make too much of it, little woman.Why, how you sob, Dame Durden, how you sob!"
"It is with exquisite pleasure, guardian--with a heart full ofthanks."
"Well, well," said he. "I am delighted that you approve. I thoughtyou would. I meant it as a pleasant surprise for the little mistressof Bleak House."
I kissed him and dried my eyes. "I know now!" said I. "I have seenthis in your face a long while."
"No; have you really, my dear?" said he. "What a Dame Durden it is toread a face!"
He was so quaintly cheerful that I could not long be otherwise, andwas almost ashamed of having been otherwise at all. When I went tobed, I cried. I am bound to confess that I cried; but I hope it waswith pleasure, though I am not quite sure it was with pleasure. Irepeated every word of the letter twice over.
A most beautiful summer morning succeeded, and after breakfast wewent out arm in arm to see the house of which I was to give my mightyhousekeeping opinion. We entered a flower-garden by a gate in a sidewall, of which he had the key, and the first thing I saw was that thebeds and flowers were all laid out according to the manner of my bedsand flowers at home.
"You see, my dear," observed my guardian, standing still with adelighted face to watch my looks, "knowing there could be no betterplan, I borrowed yours."
We went on by a pretty little orchard, where the cherries werenestling among the green leaves and the shadows of the apple-treeswere sporting on the grass, to the house itself--a cottage, quite arustic cottage of doll's rooms; but such a lovely place, so tranquiland so beautiful, with such a rich and smiling country spread aroundit; with water sparkling away into the distance, here all overhungwith summer-growth, there turning a humming mill; at its nearestpoint glancing through a meadow by the cheerful town, wherecricket-players were assembling in bright groups and a flag wasflying from a white tent that rippled in the sweet west wind. Andstill, as we went through the pretty rooms, out at the little rusticverandah doors, and underneath the tiny wooden colonnades garlandedwith woodbine, jasmine, and honey-suckle, I saw in the papering onthe walls, in the colours of the furniture, in the arrangement of allthe pretty objects, MY little tastes and fancies, MY little methodsand inventions which they used to laugh at while they praised them,my odd ways everywhere.
I could not say enough in admiration of what was all so beautiful,but one secret doubt arose in my mind when I saw this, I thought, oh,would he be the happier for it! Would it not have been better for hispeace that I should not have been so brought before him? Becausealthough I was not what he thought me, still he loved me very dearly,and it might remind him mournfully of what be believed he had lost. Idid not wish him to forget me--perhaps he might not have done so,without these aids to his memory--but my way was easier than his, andI could have reconciled myself even to that so that he had been thehappier for it.
"And now, little woman," said my guardian, whom I had never seen soproud and joyful as in showing me these things and watching myappreciation of them, "now, last of all, for the name of this house."
"What is it called, dear guardian?"
"My child," said he, "come and see,"
He took me to the porch, which he had hitherto avoided, and said,pausing before we went out, "My dear child, don't you guess thename?"
"No!" said I.
We went out of the porch and he showed me written over it, BleakHouse.
He led me to a seat among the leaves close by, and sitting downbeside me and taking my hand in his, spoke to me thus, "My darlinggirl, in what there has been between us, I have, I hope, been reallysolicitous for your happiness. When I wrote you the letter to whichyou brought the answer," smiling as he referred to it, "I had my owntoo much in view; but I had yours too. Whether, under differentcircumstances, I might ever have renewed the old dream I sometimesdreamed when you were very young, of making you my wife one day, Ineed not ask myself. I did renew it, and I wrote my letter, and youbrought your answer. You are following what I say, my child?"
I was cold, and I trembled violently, but not a word he uttered waslost. As I sat looking fixedly at him and the sun's rays descended,softly shining through the leaves upon his bare head, I felt as ifthe brightness on him must be like the brightness of the angels.
"Hear me, my love, but do not speak. It is for me to speak now. Whenit was that I began to doubt whether what I had done would reallymake you happy is no matter. Woodcourt came home, and I soon had nodoubt at all."
I clasped him round the neck and hung my head upon his breast andwept. "Lie lightly, confidently here, my child," said he, pressing megently to him. "I am your guardian and your father now. Restconfidently here."
Soothingly, like the gentle rustling of the leaves; and genially,like the ripening weather; and radiantly and beneficently, like thesunshine, he went on.
"Understand me, my dear girl. I had no doubt of your being contentedand happy with me, being so dutiful and so devoted; but I saw withwhom you would be happier. That I penetrated his secret when DameDurden was blind to it is no wonder, for I knew the good that couldnever change in her better far than she did. Well! I have long beenin Allan Woodcourt's confidence, although he was not, untilyesterday, a few hours before you came here, in mine. But I would nothave my Esther's bright example lost; I would not have a jot of mydear girl's virtues unobserved and unhonoured; I would not have heradmitted on sufferance into the line of Morgan ap-Kerrig, no, not forthe weight in gold of all the mountains in Wales!"
He stopped to kiss me on the forehead, and I sobbed and wept afresh.For I felt as if I could not bear the painful delight of his praise.
"Hush, little woman! Don't cry; this is to be a day of joy. I havelooked forward to it," he said exultingly, "for months on months! Afew words more, Dame Trot, and I have said my say. Determined not tothrow away one atom of my Esther's worth, I took Mrs. Woodcourt intoa separate confidence. 'Now, madam,' said I, 'I clearly perceive--andindeed I know, to boot--that your son loves my ward. I am furthervery sure that my ward loves your son, but will sacrifice her love toa sense of duty and affection, and will sacrifice it so completely,so entirely, so religiously, that you should never suspect it thoughyou watched her night and day.' Then I told her all ourstory--ours--yours and mine. 'Now, madam,' said I, 'come you, knowingthis, and live with us. Come you, and see my child from hour to hour;set what you see against her pedigree, which is this, and this'--forI scorned to mince it--'and tell me what is the true legitimacy whenyou shall have quite made up your mind on that subject.' Why, honourto her old Welsh blood, my dear," cried my guardian with enthusiasm,"I believe the heart it animates beats no less warmly, no lessadmiringly, no less lovingly, towards Dame Durden than my own!"
He tenderly raised my head, and as I clung to him, kissed me in hisold fatherly way again and again. What a light, now, on theprotecting manner I had thought about!
"One more last word. When Allan Woodcourt spoke to you, my dear, hespoke with my knowledge and consent--but I gave him no encouragement,not I, for these surprises were my great reward, and I was toomiserly to part with a scrap of it. He was to come and tell me allthat passed, and he did. I have no more to say. My dearest, AllanWoodcourt stood beside your father when he lay dead--stood besideyour mother. This is Bleak House. This day I give this house itslittle mistress; and before God, it is the brightest day in all mylife!"
He rose and raised me with him. We were no longer alone. Myhusband--I have called him by that name full seven happy yearsnow--stood at my side.
"Allan," said my guardian, "take from me a willing gift, the bestwife that ever man had. What more can I say for you than that I knowyou deserve her! Take with her the little home she brings you. Youknow what she will make it, Allan; you know what she has made itsnamesake. Let me share its felicity sometimes, and what do Isacrifice? Nothing, nothing."
He kissed me once again, and now the tears were in his eyes as hesaid more softly, "Esther, my dearest, after so many years, there isa kind of parting in this too. I know that my mistake has caused yousome distress. Forgive your old guardian, in restoring him to his oldplace in your affections; and blot it out of your memory. Allan, takemy dear."
He moved away from under the green roof of leaves, and stopping inthe sunlight outside and turning cheerfully towards us, said, "Ishall be found about here somewhere. It's a west wind, little woman,due west! Let no one thank me any more, for I am going to revert tomy bachelor habits, and if anybody disregards this warning, I'll runaway and never come back!"
What happiness was ours that day, what joy, what rest, what hope,what gratitude, what bliss! We were to be married before the monthwas out, but when we were to come and take possession of our ownhouse was to depend on Richard and Ada.
We all three went home together next day. As soon as we arrived intown, Allan went straight to see Richard and to carry our joyful newsto him and my darling. Late as it was, I meant to go to her for a fewminutes before lying down to sleep, but I went home with my guardianfirst to make his tea for him and to occupy the old chair by hisside, for I did not like to think of its being empty so soon.
When we came home we found that a young man had called three times inthe course of that one day to see me and that having been told on theoccasion of his third call that I was not expected to return beforeten o'clock at night, he had left word that he would call about then.He had left his card three times. Mr. Guppy.
As I naturally speculated on the object of these visits, and as Ialways associated something ludicrous with the visitor, it fell outthat in laughing about Mr. Guppy I told my guardian of his oldproposal and his subsequent retraction. "After that," said myguardian, "we will certainly receive this hero." So instructions weregiven that Mr. Guppy should be shown in when he came again, and theywere scarcely given when he did come again.
He was embarrassed when he found my guardian with me, but recoveredhimself and said, "How de do, sir?"
"How do you do, sir?" returned my guardian.
"Thank you, sir, I am tolerable," returned Mr. Guppy. "Will you allowme to introduce my mother, Mrs. Guppy of the Old Street Road, and myparticular friend, Mr. Weevle. That is to say, my friend has gone bythe name of Weevle, but his name is really and truly Jobling."
My guardian begged them to be seated, and they all sat down.
"Tony," said Mr. Guppy to his friend after an awkward silence. "Willyou open the case?"
"Do it yourself," returned the friend rather tartly.
"Well, Mr. Jarndyce, sir," Mr. Guppy, after a moment's consideration,began, to the great diversion of his mother, which she displayed bynudging Mr. Jobling with her elbow and winking at me in a mostremarkable manner, "I had an idea that I should see Miss Summerson byherself and was not quite prepared for your esteemed presence. ButMiss Summerson has mentioned to you, perhaps, that something haspassed between us on former occasions?"
"Miss Summerson," returned my guardian, smiling, "has made acommunication to that effect to me."
"That," said Mr. Guppy, "makes matters easier. Sir, I have come outof my articles at Kenge and Carboy's, and I believe with satisfactionto all parties. I am now admitted (after undergoing an examinationthat's enough to badger a man blue, touching a pack of nonsense thathe don't want to know) on the roll of attorneys and have taken out mycertificate, if it would be any satisfaction to you to see it."
"Thank you, Mr. Guppy," returned my guardian. "I am quite willing--Ibelieve I use a legal phrase--to admit the certificate."
Mr. Guppy therefore desisted from taking something out of his pocketand proceeded without it.
"I have no capital myself, but my mother has a little property whichtakes the form of an annuity"--here Mr. Guppy's mother rolled herhead as if she never could sufficiently enjoy the observation, andput her handkerchief to her mouth, and again winked at me--"and a fewpounds for expenses out of pocket in conducting business will neverbe wanting, free of interest, which is an advantage, you know," saidMr. Guppy feelingly.
"Certainly an advantage," returned my guardian.
"I HAVE some connexion," pursued Mr. Guppy, "and it lays in thedirection of Walcot Square, Lambeth. I have therefore taken a 'ousein that locality, which, in the opinion of my friends, is a hollowbargain (taxes ridiculous, and use of fixtures included in the rent),and intend setting up professionally for myself there forthwith."
Here Mr. Guppy's mother fell into an extraordinary passion of rollingher head and smiling waggishly at anybody who would look at her.
"It's a six-roomer, exclusive of kitchens," said Mr. Guppy, "and inthe opinion of my friends, a commodious tenement. When I mention myfriends, I refer principally to my friend Jobling, who I believe hasknown me," Mr. Guppy looked at him with a sentimental air, "fromboyhood's hour."
Mr. Jobling confirmed this with a sliding movement of his legs.
"My friend Jobling will render me his assistance in the capacity ofclerk and will live in the 'ouse," said Mr. Guppy. "My mother willlikewise live in the 'ouse when her present quarter in the Old StreetRoad shall have ceased and expired; and consequently there will be nowant of society. My friend Jobling is naturally aristocratic bytaste, and besides being acquainted with the movements of the uppercircles, fully backs me in the intentions I am now developing."
Mr. Jobling said "Certainly" and withdrew a little from the elbow ofMr Guppy's mother.
"Now, I have no occasion to mention to you, sir, you being in theconfidence of Miss Summerson," said Mr. Guppy, "(mother, I wish you'dbe so good as to keep still), that Miss Summerson's image wasformerly imprinted on my 'eart and that I made her a proposal ofmarriage."
"That I have heard," returned my guardian.
"Circumstances," pursued Mr. Guppy, "over which I had no control, butquite the contrary, weakened the impression of that image for a time.At which time Miss Summerson's conduct was highly genteel; I may evenadd, magnanimous."
My guardian patted me on the shoulder and seemed much amused.
"Now, sir," said Mr. Guppy, "I have got into that state of mindmyself that I wish for a reciprocity of magnanimous behaviour. I wishto prove to Miss Summerson that I can rise to a heighth of whichperhaps she hardly thought me capable. I find that the image which Idid suppose had been eradicated from my 'eart is NOT eradicated. Itsinfluence over me is still tremenjous, and yielding to it, I amwilling to overlook the circumstances over which none of us have hadany control and to renew those proposals to Miss Summerson which Ihad the honour to make at a former period. I beg to lay the 'ouse inWalcot Square, the business, and myself before Miss Summerson for heracceptance."
"Very magnanimous indeed, sir," observed my guardian.
"Well, sir," replied Mr. Guppy with candour, "my wish is to BEmagnanimous. I do not consider that in making this offer to MissSummerson I am by any means throwing myself away; neither is that theopinion of my friends. Still, there are circumstances which I submitmay be taken into account as a set off against any little drawbacksof mine, and so a fair and equitable balance arrived at."
"I take upon myself, sir," said my guardian, laughing as he rang thebell, "to reply to your proposals on behalf of Miss Summerson. She isvery sensible of your handsome intentions, and wishes you goodevening, and wishes you well."
"Oh!" said Mr. Guppy with a blank look. "Is that tantamount, sir, toacceptance, or rejection, or consideration?"
"To decided rejection, if you please," returned my guardian.
Mr. Guppy looked incredulously at his friend, and at his mother, whosuddenly turned very angry, and at the floor, and at the ceiling.
"Indeed?" said he. "Then, Jobling, if you was the friend yourepresent yourself, I should think you might hand my mother out ofthe gangway instead of allowing her to remain where she ain'twanted."
But Mrs. Guppy positively refused to come out of the gangway. Shewouldn't hear of it. "Why, get along with you," said she to myguardian, "what do you mean? Ain't my son good enough for you? Youought to be ashamed of yourself. Get out with you!"
"My good lady," returned my guardian, "it is hardly reasonable to askme to get out of my own room."
"I don't care for that," said Mrs. Guppy. "Get out with you. If weain't good enough for you, go and procure somebody that is goodenough. Go along and find 'em."
I was quite unprepared for the rapid manner in which Mrs. Guppy'spower of jocularity merged into a power of taking the profoundestoffence.
"Go along and find somebody that's good enough for you," repeatedMrs. Guppy. "Get out!" Nothing seemed to astonish Mr. Guppy's motherso much and to make her so very indignant as our not getting out."Why don't you get out?" said Mrs. Guppy. "What are you stopping herefor?"
"Mother," interposed her son, always getting before her and pushingher back with one shoulder as she sidled at my guardian, "WILL youhold your tongue?"
"No, William," she returned, "I won't! Not unless he gets out, Iwon't!"
However, Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling together closed on Mr. Guppy'smother (who began to be quite abusive) and took her, very muchagainst her will, downstairs, her voice rising a stair higher everytime her figure got a stair lower, and insisting that we shouldimmediately go and find somebody who was good enough for us, andabove all things that we should get out.



CHAPTER LXV
Beginning the World

The term had commenced, and my guardian found an intimation from Mr.Kenge that the cause would come on in two days. As I had sufficienthopes of the will to be in a flutter about it, Allan and I agreed togo down to the court that morning. Richard was extremely agitated andwas so weak and low, though his illness was still of the mind, thatmy dear girl indeed had sore occasion to be supported. But she lookedforward--a very little way now--to the help that was to come to her,and never drooped.
It was at Westminster that the cause was to come on. It had come onthere, I dare say, a hundred times before, but I could not divestmyself of an idea that it MIGHT lead to some result now. We left homedirectly after breakfast to be at Westminster Hall in good time andwalked down there through the lively streets--so happily andstrangely it seemed!--together.
As we were going along, planning what we should do for Richard andAda, I heard somebody calling "Esther! My dear Esther! Esther!" Andthere was Caddy Jellyby, with her head out of the window of a littlecarriage which she hired now to go about in to her pupils (she had somany), as if she wanted to embrace me at a hundred yards' distance. Ihad written her a note to tell her of all that my guardian had done,but had not had a moment to go and see her. Of course we turned back,and the affectionate girl was in that state of rapture, and was sooverjoyed to talk about the night when she brought me the flowers,and was so determined to squeeze my face (bonnet and all) between herhands, and go on in a wild manner altogether, calling me all kinds ofprecious names, and telling Allan I had done I don't know what forher, that I was just obliged to get into the little carriage and calmher down by letting her say and do exactly what she liked. Allan,standing at the window, was as pleased as Caddy; and I was as pleasedas either of them; and I wonder that I got away as I did, rather thanthat I came off laughing, and red, and anything but tidy, and lookingafter Caddy, who looked after us out of the coach-window as long asshe could see us.
This made us some quarter of an hour late, and when we came toWestminster Hall we found that the day's business was begun. Worsethan that, we found such an unusual crowd in the Court of Chancerythat it was full to the door, and we could neither see nor hear whatwas passing within. It appeared to be something droll, foroccasionally there was a laugh and a cry of "Silence!" It appeared tobe something interesting, for every one was pushing and striving toget nearer. It appeared to be something that made the professionalgentlemen very merry, for there were several young counsellors inwigs and whiskers on the outside of the crowd, and when one of themtold the others about it, they put their hands in their pockets, andquite doubled themselves up with laughter, and went stamping aboutthe pavement of the Hall.
We asked a gentleman by us if he knew what cause was on. He told usJarndyce and Jarndyce. We asked him if he knew what was doing in it.He said really, no he did not, nobody ever did, but as well as hecould make out, it was over. Over for the day? we asked him. No, hesaid, over for good.
Over for good!
When we heard this unaccountable answer, we looked at one anotherquite lost in amazement. Could it be possible that the will had setthings right at last and that Richard and Ada were going to be rich?It seemed too good to be true. Alas it was!
Our suspense was short, for a break-up soon took place in the crowd,and the people came streaming out looking flushed and hot andbringing a quantity of bad air with them. Still they were allexceedingly amused and were more like people coming out from a farceor a juggler than from a court of justice. We stood aside, watchingfor any countenance we knew, and presently great bundles of paperbegan to be carried out--bundles in bags, bundles too large to be gotinto any bags, immense masses of papers of all shapes and no shapes,which the bearers staggered under, and threw down for the time being,anyhow, on the Hall pavement, while they went back to bring out more.Even these clerks were laughing. We glanced at the papers, and seeingJarndyce and Jarndyce everywhere, asked an official-looking personwho was standing in the midst of them whether the cause was over.Yes, he said, it was all up with it at last, and burst out laughingtoo.
At this juncture we perceived Mr. Kenge coming out of court with anaffable dignity upon him, listening to Mr. Vholes, who wasdeferential and carried his own bag. Mr. Vholes was the first to seeus. "Here is Miss Summerson, sir," he said. "And Mr. Woodcourt."
"Oh, indeed! Yes. Truly!" said Mr. Kenge, raising his hat to me withpolished politeness. "How do you do? Glad to see you. Mr. Jarndyce isnot here?"
No. He never came there, I reminded him.
"Really," returned Mr. Kenge, "it is as well that he is NOT hereto-day, for his--shall I say, in my good friend's absence, hisindomitable singularity of opinion?--might have been strengthened,perhaps; not reasonably, but might have been strengthened."
"Pray what has been done to-day?" asked Allan.
"I beg your pardon?" said Mr. Kenge with excessive urbanity.
"What has been done to-day?"
"What has been done," repeated Mr. Kenge. "Quite so. Yes. Why, notmuch has been done; not much. We have been checked--brought upsuddenly, I would say--upon the--shall I term it threshold?"
"Is this will considered a genuine document, sir?" said Allan. "Willyou tell us that?"
"Most certainly, if I could," said Mr. Kenge; "but we have not goneinto that, we have not gone into that."
"We have not gone into that," repeated Mr. Vholes as if his lowinward voice were an echo.
"You are to reflect, Mr. Woodcourt," observed Mr. Kenge, using hissilver trowel persuasively and smoothingly, "that this has been agreat cause, that this has been a protracted cause, that this hasbeen a complex cause. Jarndyce and Jarndyce has been termed, notinaptly, a monument of Chancery practice."
"And patience has sat upon it a long time," said Allan.
"Very well indeed, sir," returned Mr. Kenge with a certaincondescending laugh he had. "Very well! You are further to reflect,Mr. Woodcourt," becoming dignified almost to severity, "that on thenumerous difficulties, contingencies, masterly fictions, and forms ofprocedure in this great cause, there has been expended study,ability, eloquence, knowledge, intellect, Mr. Woodcourt, highintellect. For many years, the--a--I would say the flower of the bar,and the--a--I would presume to add, the matured autumnal fruits ofthe woolsack--have been lavished upon Jarndyce and Jarndyce. If thepublic have the benefit, and if the country have the adornment, ofthis great grasp, it must be paid for in money or money's worth,sir."
"Mr. Kenge," said Allan, appearing enlightened all in a moment."Excuse me, our time presses. Do I understand that the whole estateis found to have been absorbed in costs?"
"Hem! I believe so," returned Mr. Kenge. "Mr. Vholes, what do YOUsay?"
"I believe so," said Mr. Vholes.
"And that thus the suit lapses and melts away?"
"Probably," returned Mr. Kenge. "Mr. Vholes?"
"Probably," said Mr. Vholes.
"My dearest life," whispered Allan, "this will break Richard'sheart!"
There was such a shock of apprehension in his face, and he knewRichard so perfectly, and I too had seen so much of his gradualdecay, that what my dear girl had said to me in the fullness of herforeboding love sounded like a knell in my ears.
"In case you should be wanting Mr. C., sir," said Mr. Vholes, comingafter us, "you'll find him in court. I left him there resting himselfa little. Good day, sir; good day, Miss Summerson." As he gave methat slowly devouring look of his, while twisting up the strings ofhis bag before he hastened with it after Mr. Kenge, the benignantshadow of whose conversational presence he seemed afraid to leave, hegave one gasp as if he had swallowed the last morsel of his client,and his black buttoned-up unwholesome figure glided away to the lowdoor at the end of the Hall.
"My dear love," said Allan, "leave to me, for a little while, thecharge you gave me. Go home with this intelligence and come to Ada'sby and by!"
I would not let him take me to a coach, but entreated him to go toRichard without a moment's delay and leave me to do as he wished.Hurrying home, I found my guardian and told him gradually with whatnews I had returned. "Little woman," said he, quite unmoved forhimself, "to have done with the suit on any terms is a greaterblessing than I had looked for. But my poor young cousins!"
We talked about them all the morning and discussed what it waspossible to do. In the afternoon my guardian walked with me toSymond's Inn and left me at the door. I went upstairs. When mydarling heard my footsteps, she came out into the small passage andthrew her arms round my neck, but she composed herself directly andsaid that Richard had asked for me several times. Allan had found himsitting in the corner of the court, she told me, like a stone figure.On being roused, he had broken away and made as if he would havespoken in a fierce voice to the judge. He was stopped by his mouthbeing full of blood, and Allan had brought him home.
He was lying on a sofa with his eyes closed when I went in. Therewere restoratives on the table; the room was made as airy aspossible, and was darkened, and was very orderly and quiet. Allanstood behind him watching him gravely. His face appeared to me to bequite destitute of colour, and now that I saw him without his seeingme, I fully saw, for the first time, how worn away he was. But helooked handsomer than I had seen him look for many a day.
I sat down by his side in silence. Opening his eyes by and by, hesaid in a weak voice, but with his old smile, "Dame Durden, kiss me,my dear!"
It was a great comfort and surprise to me to find him in his lowstate cheerful and looking forward. He was happier, he said, in ourintended marriage than he could find words to tell me. My husband hadbeen a guardian angel to him and Ada, and he blessed us both andwished us all the joy that life could yield us. I almost felt as ifmy own heart would have broken when I saw him take my husband's handand hold it to his breast.
We spoke of the future as much as possible, and he said several timesthat he must be present at our marriage if he could stand upon hisfeet. Ada would contrive to take him, somehow, he said. "Yes, surely,dearest Richard!" But as my darling answered him thus hopefully, soserene and beautiful, with the help that was to come to her sonear--I knew--I knew!
It was not good for him to talk too much, and when he was silent, wewere silent too. Sitting beside him, I made a pretence of working formy dear, as he had always been used to joke about my being busy. Adaleaned upon his pillow, holding his head upon her arm. He dozedoften, and whenever he awoke without seeing him, said first of all,"Where is Woodcourt?"
Evening had come on when I lifted up my eyes and saw my guardianstanding in the little hall. "Who is that, Dame Durden?" Richardasked me. The door was behind him, but he had observed in my facethat some one was there.
I looked to Allan for advice, and as he nodded "Yes," bent overRichard and told him. My guardian saw what passed, came softly by mein a moment, and laid his hand on Richard's. "Oh, sir," said Richard,"you are a good man, you are a good man!" and burst into tears forthe first time.
My guardian, the picture of a good man, sat down in my place, keepinghis hand on Richard's.
"My dear Rick," said he, "the clouds have cleared away, and it isbright now. We can see now. We were all bewildered, Rick, more orless. What matters! And how are you, my dear boy?"
"I am very weak, sir, but I hope I shall be stronger. I have to beginthe world."
"Aye, truly; well said!" cried my guardian.
"I will not begin it in the old way now," said Richard with a sadsmile. "I have learned a lesson now, sir. It was a hard one, but youshall be assured, indeed, that I have learned it."
"Well, well," said my guardian, comforting him; "well, well, well,dear boy!"
"I was thinking, sir," resumed Richard, "that there is nothing onearth I should so much like to see as their house--Dame Durden's andWoodcourt's house. If I could be removed there when I begin torecover my strength, I feel as if I should get well there sooner thananywhere."
"Why, so have I been thinking too, Rick," said my guardian, "and ourlittle woman likewise; she and I have been talking of it this veryday. I dare say her husband won't object. What do you think?"
Richard smiled and lifted up his arm to touch him as he stood behindthe head of the couch.
"I say nothing of Ada," said Richard, "but I think of her, and havethought of her very much. Look at her! See her here, sir, bendingover this pillow when she has so much need to rest upon it herself,my dear love, my poor girl!"
He clasped her in his arms, and none of us spoke. He graduallyreleased her, and she looked upon us, and looked up to heaven, andmoved her lips.
"When I get down to Bleak House," said Richard, "I shall have much totell you, sir, and you will have much to show me. You will go, won'tyou?"
"Undoubtedly, dear Rick."
"Thank you; like you, like you," said Richard. "But it's all likeyou. They have been telling me how you planned it and how youremembered all Esther's familiar tastes and ways. It will be likecoming to the old Bleak House again."
"And you will come there too, I hope, Rick. I am a solitary man now,you know, and it will be a charity to come to me. A charity to cometo me, my love!" he repeated to Ada as he gently passed his hand overher golden hair and put a lock of it to his lips. (I think he vowedwithin himself to cherish her if she were left alone.)
"It was a troubled dream?" said Richard, clasping both my guardian'shands eagerly.
"Nothing more, Rick; nothing more."
"And you, being a good man, can pass it as such, and forgive and pitythe dreamer, and be lenient and encouraging when he wakes?"
"Indeed I can. What am I but another dreamer, Rick?"
"I will begin the world!" said Richard with a light in his eyes.
My husband drew a little nearer towards Ada, and I saw him solemnlylift up his hand to warn my guardian.
"When shall I go from this place to that pleasant country where theold times are, where I shall have strength to tell what Ada has beento me, where I shall be able to recall my many faults andblindnesses, where I shall prepare myself to be a guide to my unbornchild?" said Richard. "When shall I go?"
"Dear Rick, when you are strong enough," returned my guardian.
"Ada, my darling!"
He sought to raise himself a little. Allan raised him so that shecould hold him on her bosom, which was what he wanted.
"I have done you many wrongs, my own. I have fallen like a poor strayshadow on your way, I have married you to poverty and trouble, I havescattered your means to the winds. You will forgive me all this, myAda, before I begin the world?"
A smile irradiated his face as she bent to kiss him. He slowly laidhis face down upon her bosom, drew his arms closer round her neck,and with one parting sob began the world. Not this world, oh, notthis! The world that sets this right.
When all was still, at a late hour, poor crazed Miss Flite cameweeping to me and told me she had given her birds their liberty.



CHAPTER LXVI
Down in Lincolnshire

There is a hush upon Chesney Wold in these altered days, as there isupon a portion of the family history. The story goes that SirLeicester paid some who could have spoken out to hold their peace;but it is a lame story, feebly whispering and creeping about, and anybrighter spark of life it shows soon dies away. It is known forcertain that the handsome Lady Dedlock lies in the mausoleum in thepark, where the trees arch darkly overhead, and the owl is heard atnight making the woods ring; but whence she was brought home to belaid among the echoes of that solitary place, or how she died, is allmystery. Some of her old friends, principally to be found among thepeachy-cheeked charmers with the skeleton throats, did onceoccasionally say, as they toyed in a ghastly manner with largefans--like charmers reduced to flirting with grim death, after losingall their other beaux--did once occasionally say, when the worldassembled together, that they wondered the ashes of the Dedlocks,entombed in the mausoleum, never rose against the profanation of hercompany. But the dead-and-gone Dedlocks take it very calmly and havenever been known to object.
Up from among the fern in the hollow, and winding by the bridle-roadamong the trees, comes sometimes to this lonely spot the sound ofhorses' hoofs. Then may be seen Sir Leicester--invalided, bent, andalmost blind, but of worthy presence yet--riding with a stalwart manbeside him, constant to his bridle-rein. When they come to a certainspot before the mausoleum-door, Sir Leicester's accustomed horsestops of his own accord, and Sir Leicester, pulling off his hat, isstill for a few moments before they ride away.
War rages yet with the audacious Boythorn, though at uncertainintervals, and now hotly, and now coolly, flickering like an unsteadyfire. The truth is said to be that when Sir Leicester came down toLincolnshire for good, Mr. Boythorn showed a manifest desire toabandon his right of way and do whatever Sir Leicester would, whichSir Leicester, conceiving to be a condescension to his illness ormisfortune, took in such high dudgeon, and was so magnificentlyaggrieved by, that Mr. Boythorn found himself under the necessity ofcommitting a flagrant trespass to restore his neighbour to himself.Similarly, Mr. Boythorn continues to post tremendous placards on thedisputed thoroughfare and (with his bird upon his head) to hold forthvehemently against Sir Leicester in the sanctuary of his own home;similarly, also, he defies him as of old in the little church bytestifying a bland unconsciousness of his existence. But it iswhispered that when he is most ferocious towards his old foe, he isreally most considerate, and that Sir Leicester, in the dignity ofbeing implacable, little supposes how much he is humoured. As littledoes he think how near together he and his antagonist have sufferedin the fortunes of two sisters, and his antagonist, who knows it now,is not the man to tell him. So the quarrel goes on to thesatisfaction of both.
In one of the lodges of the park--that lodge within sight of thehouse where, once upon a time, when the waters were out down inLincolnshire, my Lady used to see the keeper's child--the stalwartman, the trooper formerly, is housed. Some relics of his old callinghang upon the walls, and these it is the chosen recreation of alittle lame man about the stable-yard to keep gleaming bright. A busylittle man he always is, in the polishing at harness-house doors, ofstirrup-irons, bits, curb-chains, harness bosses, anything in the wayof a stable-yard that will take a polish, leading a life of friction.A shaggy little damaged man, withal, not unlike an old dog of somemongrel breed, who has been considerably knocked about. He answers tothe name of Phil.
A goodly sight it is to see the grand old housekeeper (harder ofhearing now) going to church on the arm of her son and toobserve--which few do, for the house is scant of company in thesetimes--the relations of both towards Sir Leicester, and his towardsthem. They have visitors in the high summer weather, when a greycloak and umbrella, unknown to Chesney Wold at other periods, areseen among the leaves; when two young ladies are occasionally foundgambolling in sequestered saw-pits and such nooks of the park; andwhen the smoke of two pipes wreathes away into the fragrant eveningair from the trooper's door. Then is a fife heard trolling within thelodge on the inspiring topic of the "British Grenadiers"; and as theevening closes in, a gruff inflexible voice is heard to say, whiletwo men pace together up and down, "But I never own to it before theold girl. Discipline must be maintained."
The greater part of the house is shut up, and it is a show-house nolonger; yet Sir Leicester holds his shrunken state in the longdrawing-room for all that, and reposes in his old place before myLady's picture. Closed in by night with broad screens, and illuminedonly in that part, the light of the drawing-room seems graduallycontracting and dwindling until it shall be no more. A little more,in truth, and it will be all extinguished for Sir Leicester; and thedamp door in the mausoleum which shuts so tight, and looks soobdurate, will have opened and received him.
Volumnia, growing with the flight of time pinker as to the red in herface, and yellower as to the white, reads to Sir Leicester in thelong evenings and is driven to various artifices to conceal heryawns, of which the chief and most efficacious is the insertion ofthe pearl necklace between her rosy lips. Long-winded treatises onthe Buffy and Boodle question, showing how Buffy is immaculate andBoodle villainous, and how the country is lost by being all Boodleand no Buffy, or saved by being all Buffy and no Boodle (it must beone of the two, and cannot be anything else), are the staple of herreading. Sir Leicester is not particular what it is and does notappear to follow it very closely, further than that he always comesbroad awake the moment Volumnia ventures to leave off, and sonorouslyrepeating her last words, begs with some displeasure to know if shefinds herself fatigued. However, Volumnia, in the course of herbird-like hopping about and pecking at papers, has alighted on amemorandum concerning herself in the event of "anything happening" toher kinsman, which is handsome compensation for an extensive courseof reading and holds even the dragon Boredom at bay.
The cousins generally are rather shy of Chesney Wold in its dullness,but take to it a little in the shooting season, when guns are heardin the plantations, and a few scattered beaters and keepers wait atthe old places of appointment for low-spirited twos and threes ofcousins. The debilitated cousin, more debilitated by the drearinessof the place, gets into a fearful state of depression, groaning underpenitential sofa-pillows in his gunless hours and protesting thatsuch fernal old jail's--nough t'sew fler up--frever.
The only great occasions for Volumnia in this changed aspect of theplace in Lincolnshire are those occasions, rare and widely separated,when something is to be done for the county or the country in the wayof gracing a public ball. Then, indeed, does the tuckered sylph comeout in fairy form and proceed with joy under cousinly escort to theexhausted old assembly-room, fourteen heavy miles off, which, duringthree hundred and sixty-four days and nights of every ordinary year,is a kind of antipodean lumber-room full of old chairs and tablesupside down. Then, indeed, does she captivate all hearts by hercondescension, by her girlish vivacity, and by her skipping about asin the days when the hideous old general with the mouth too full ofteeth had not cut one of them at two guineas each. Then does shetwirl and twine, a pastoral nymph of good family, through the mazesof the dance. Then do the swains appear with tea, with lemonade, withsandwiches, with homage. Then is she kind and cruel, stately andunassuming, various, beautifully wilful. Then is there a singularkind of parallel between her and the little glass chandeliers ofanother age embellishing that assembly-room, which, with their meagrestems, their spare little drops, their disappointing knobs where nodrops are, their bare little stalks from which knobs and drops haveboth departed, and their little feeble prismatic twinkling, all seemVolumnias.
For the rest, Lincolnshire life to Volumnia is a vast blank ofovergrown house looking out upon trees, sighing, wringing theirhands, bowing their heads, and casting their tears upon thewindow-panes in monotonous depressions. A labyrinth of grandeur, lessthe property of an old family of human beings and their ghostlylikenesses than of an old family of echoings and thunderings whichstart out of their hundred graves at every sound and go resoundingthrough the building. A waste of unused passages and staircases inwhich to drop a comb upon a bedroom floor at night is to send astealthy footfall on an errand through the house. A place where fewpeople care to go about alone, where a maid screams if an ash dropsfrom the fire, takes to crying at all times and seasons, becomes thevictim of a low disorder of the spirits, and gives warning anddeparts.
Thus Chesney Wold. With so much of itself abandoned to darkness andvacancy; with so little change under the summer shining or the wintrylowering; so sombre and motionless always--no flag flying now by day,no rows of lights sparkling by night; with no family to come and go,no visitors to be the souls of pale cold shapes of rooms, no stir oflife about it--passion and pride, even to the stranger's eye, havedied away from the place in Lincolnshire and yielded it to dullrepose.



CHAPTER LXVII
The Close of Esther's Narrative

Full seven happy years I have been the mistress of Bleak House. Thefew words that I have to add to what I have written are soon penned;then I and the unknown friend to whom I write will part for ever. Notwithout much dear remembrance on my side. Not without some, I hope,on his or hers.
They gave my darling into my arms, and through many weeks I neverleft her. The little child who was to have done so much was bornbefore the turf was planted on its father's grave. It was a boy; andI, my husband, and my guardian gave him his father's name.
The help that my dear counted on did come to her, though it came, inthe eternal wisdom, for another purpose. Though to bless and restorehis mother, not his father, was the errand of this baby, its powerwas mighty to do it. When I saw the strength of the weak little handand how its touch could heal my darling's heart and raised hopewithin her, I felt a new sense of the goodness and the tenderness ofGod.
They throve, and by degrees I saw my dear girl pass into my countrygarden and walk there with her infant in her arms. I was marriedthen. I was the happiest of the happy.
It was at this time that my guardian joined us and asked Ada when shewould come home.
"Both houses are your home, my dear," said he, "but the older BleakHouse claims priority. When you and my boy are strong enough to doit, come and take possession of your home."
Ada called him "her dearest cousin, John." But he said, no, it mustbe guardian now. He was her guardian henceforth, and the boy's; andhe had an old association with the name. So she called him guardian,and has called him guardian ever since. The children know him by noother name. I say the children; I have two little daughters.
It is difficult to believe that Charley (round-eyed still, and not atall grammatical) is married to a miller in our neighbourhood; yet soit is; and even now, looking up from my desk as I write early in themorning at my summer window, I see the very mill beginning to goround. I hope the miller will not spoil Charley; but he is very fondof her, and Charley is rather vain of such a match, for he is well todo and was in great request. So far as my small maid is concerned, Imight suppose time to have stood for seven years as still as the milldid half an hour ago, since little Emma, Charley's sister, is exactlywhat Charley used to be. As to Tom, Charley's brother, I am reallyafraid to say what he did at school in ciphering, but I think it wasdecimals. He is apprenticed to the miller, whatever it was, and is agood bashful fellow, always falling in love with somebody and beingashamed of it.
Caddy Jellyby passed her very last holidays with us and was a dearercreature than ever, perpetually dancing in and out of the house withthe children as if she had never given a dancing-lesson in her life.Caddy keeps her own little carriage now instead of hiring one, andlives full two miles further westward than Newman Street. She worksvery hard, her husband (an excellent one) being lame and able to dovery little. Still, she is more than contented and does all she hasto do with all her heart. Mr. Jellyby spends his evenings at her newhouse with his head against the wall as he used to do in her old one.I have heard that Mrs. Jellyby was understood to suffer greatmortification from her daughter's ignoble marriage and pursuits, butI hope she got over it in time. She has been disappointed inBorrioboola-Gha, which turned out a failure in consequence of theking of Borrioboola wanting to sell everybody--who survived theclimate--for rum, but she has taken up with the rights of women tosit in Parliament, and Caddy tells me it is a mission involving morecorrespondence than the old one. I had almost forgotten Caddy's poorlittle girl. She is not such a mite now, but she is deaf and dumb. Ibelieve there never was a better mother than Caddy, who learns, inher scanty intervals of leisure, innumerable deaf and dumb arts tosoften the affliction of her child.
As if I were never to have done with Caddy, I am reminded here ofPeepy and old Mr. Turveydrop. Peepy is in the Custom House, and doingextremely well. Old Mr. Turveydrop, very apoplectic, still exhibitshis deportment about town, still enjoys himself in the old manner, isstill believed in in the old way. He is constant in his patronage ofPeepy and is understood to have bequeathed him a favourite Frenchclock in his dressing-room--which is not his property.
With the first money we saved at home, we added to our pretty houseby throwing out a little growlery expressly for my guardian, which weinaugurated with great splendour the next time he came down to seeus. I try to write all this lightly, because my heart is full indrawing to an end, but when I write of him, my tears will have theirway.
I never look at him but I hear our poor dear Richard calling him agood man. To Ada and her pretty boy, he is the fondest father; to mehe is what he has ever been, and what name can I give to that? He ismy husband's best and dearest friend, he is our children's darling,he is the object of our deepest love and veneration. Yet while I feeltowards him as if he were a superior being, I am so familiar with himand so easy with him that I almost wonder at myself. I have neverlost my old names, nor has he lost his; nor do I ever, when he iswith us, sit in any other place than in my old chair at his side,Dame Trot, Dame Durden, Little Woman--all just the same as ever; andI answer, "Yes, dear guardian!" just the same.
I have never known the wind to be in the east for a single momentsince the day when he took me to the porch to read the name. Iremarked to him once that the wind seemed never in the east now, andhe said, no, truly; it had finally departed from that quarter on thatvery day.
I think my darling girl is more beautiful than ever. The sorrow thathas been in her face--for it is not there now--seems to have purifiedeven its innocent expression and to have given it a diviner quality.Sometimes when I raise my eyes and see her in the black dress thatshe still wears, teaching my Richard, I feel--it is difficult toexpress--as if it were so good to know that she remembers her dearEsther in her prayers.
I call him my Richard! But he says that he has two mamas, and I amone.
We are not rich in the bank, but we have always prospered, and wehave quite enough. I never walk out with my husband but I hear thepeople bless him. I never go into a house of any degree but I hearhis praises or see them in grateful eyes. I never lie down at nightbut I know that in the course of that day he has alleviated pain andsoothed some fellow-creature in the time of need. I know that fromthe beds of those who were past recovery, thanks have often, oftengone up, in the last hour, for his patient ministration. Is not thisto be rich?
The people even praise me as the doctor's wife. The people even likeme as I go about, and make so much of me that I am quite abashed. Iowe it all to him, my love, my pride! They like me for his sake, as Ido everything I do in life for his sake.
A night or two ago, after bustling about preparing for my darling andmy guardian and little Richard, who are coming to-morrow, I wassitting out in the porch of all places, that dearly memorable porch,when Allan came home. So he said, "My precious little woman, what areyou doing here?" And I said, "The moon is shining so brightly, Allan,and the night is so delicious, that I have been sitting herethinking."
"What have you been thinking about, my dear?" said Allan then.
"How curious you are!" said I. "I am almost ashamed to tell you, butI will. I have been thinking about my old looks--such as they were."
"And what have you been thinking about THEM, my busy bee?" saidAllan.
"I have been thinking that I thought it was impossible that you COULDhave loved me any better, even if I had retained them."
"'Such as they were'?" said Allan, laughing.
"Such as they were, of course."
"My dear Dame Durden," said Allan, drawing my arm through his, "doyou ever look in the glass?"
"You know I do; you see me do it."
"And don't you know that you are prettier than you ever were?"
"I did not know that; I am not certain that I know it now. But I knowthat my dearest little pets are very pretty, and that my darling isvery beautiful, and that my husband is very handsome, and that myguardian has the brightest and most benevolent face that ever wasseen, and that they can very well do without much beauty in me--evensupposing--."