CONTENTS.

Part I.
PROLOGUE--Dr. Nikola
       CHAPTER I. I determine to take a Holiday,--Sydney, and what Befel me                  there
      CHAPTER II. London
    CHAPTER III. I Visit my Relations
     CHAPTER IV. I Save an Important Life
      CHAPTER V. Mystery
     CHAPTER VI. I Meet Dr. Nikola again
    CHAPTER VII. Port Said, and what Befel us there
   CHAPTER VIII. Our Imprisonment and Attempt at Escape
     CHAPTER IX. Dr. Nikola permits us a Free Passage

Part II.
      CHAPTER I. We reach Australia, and the Result
     CHAPTER II. On the Trail
    CHAPTER III. Lord Beckenham's Story
     CHAPTER IV. Following up a Clue
      CHAPTER V. The Islands, and what we found there
     CHAPTER VI. Conclusion



A BID FOR FORTUNE



_PART I_



PROLOGUE
DR. NIKOLA

The manager of the new Imperial Restaurant on the Thames Embankment wentinto his luxurious private office and shut the door. Having done so, hefirst scratched his chin reflectively, and then took a letter from thedrawer in which it had reposed for more than two months and perused itcarefully. Though he was not aware of it, this was the thirtieth time hehad read it since breakfast that morning. And yet he was not a whitnearer understanding it than he had been at the beginning. He turned itover and scrutinized the back, where not a sign of writing was to beseen; he held it up to the window, as if he might hope to discoversomething from the water-mark; but there was nothing in either of theseplaces of a nature calculated to set his troubled mind at rest. Then hetook a magnificent repeater watch from his waistcoat pocket and glancedat the dial; the hands stood at half-past seven. He immediately threwthe letter on the table, and as he did so his anxiety found relief inwords.
"It's really the most extraordinary affair I ever had to do with," heremarked. "And as I've been in the business just three-and-thirty yearsat eleven a.m. next Monday morning, I ought to know something about it.I only hope I've done right, that's all."
As he spoke, the chief bookkeeper, who had the treble advantage of beingtall, pretty, and just eight-and-twenty years of age, entered the room.She noticed the open letter and the look upon her chief's face, and hercuriosity was proportionately excited.
"You seem worried, Mr. McPherson," she said tenderly, as she put downthe papers she had brought in for his signature.
"You have just hit it, Miss O'Sullivan," he answered, pushing themfarther on to the table. "I am worried about many things, butparticularly about this letter."
He handed the epistle to her, and she, being desirous of impressing himwith her business capabilities, read it with ostentatious care. But itwas noticeable that when she reached the signature she too turned backto the beginning, and then deliberately read it over again. The managerrose, crossed to the mantelpiece, and rang for the head waiter. Havingrelieved his feelings in this way, he seated himself again at hiswriting-table, put on his glasses, and stared at his companion, whilewaiting for her to speak.
"It's very funny," she said. "Very funny indeed!"
"It's the most extraordinary communication I have ever received," hereplied with conviction. "You see it is written from Cuyaba, Brazil. Thedate is three months ago to a day. Now I have taken the trouble to findout where and what Cuyaba is."
He made this confession with an air of conscious pride, and having doneso, laid himself back in his chair, stuck his thumbs into the armholesof his waistcoat, and looked at his fair subordinate for approval. Norwas he destined to be disappointed. He was a bachelor in possession of asnug income, and she, besides being pretty, was a lady with a keen eyeto the main chance.
"And where _is_ Cuyaba?" she asked humbly.
"Cuyaba," he replied, rolling his tongue with considerable relish roundhis unconscious mispronunciation of the name, "is a town almost on thewestern or Bolivian border of Brazil. It is of moderate size, issituated on the banks of the river Cuyaba, and is considerably connectedwith the famous Brazilian Diamond Fields."
"And does the writer of this letter live there?"
"I cannot say. He writes from there--that is enough for us."
"And he orders dinner for four--here, in a private room overlooking theriver, three months ahead--punctually at eight o'clock, gives you a listof the things he wants, and even arranges the decoration of the table.Says he has never seen either of his three friends before; that one ofthem hails from (here she consulted the letter again) Hang-chow, anotherfrom Bloemfontein, while the third resides, at present, in England. Eachone is to present an ordinary visiting card with a red dot on it to theporter in the hall, and to be shown to the room at once. I don'tunderstand it at all."
The manager paused for a moment, and then said deliberately,--"Hang-chowis in China, Bloemfontein is in South Africa."
"What a wonderful man you are, to be sure, Mr. McPherson! I never can_think_ how you manage to carry so much in your head."
There spoke the true woman. And it was a move in the right direction,for the manager was susceptible to her gentle influence, as she hadoccasion to know.
At this juncture the head waiter appeared upon the scene, and took up aposition just inside the doorway, as if he were afraid of injuring thecarpet by coming farther.
"Is No. 22 ready, Williams?"
"Quite ready, sir. The wine is on the ice, and cook tells me he'll beready to dish punctual to the moment."
"The letter says, 'no electric light; candles with red shades.' Have youput on those shades I got this morning?"
"Just seen it done this very minute, sir."
"And let me see, there was one other thing." He took the letter from thechief bookkeeper's hand and glanced at it. "Ah, yes, a porcelain saucer,and a small jug of new milk upon the mantelpiece. An extraordinaryrequest, but has it been attended to?"
"I put it there myself, sir."
"Who wait?"
"Jones, Edmunds, Brooks, and Tomkins."
"Very good. Then I think that will do. Stay! You had better tell thehall porter to look out for three gentlemen presenting plain visitingcards with a little red spot on them. Let Brooks wait in the hall, andwhen they arrive tell him to show them straight up to the room."
"It shall be done, sir."
The head waiter left the room, and the manager stretched himself in hischair, yawned by way of showing his importance, and then saidsolemnly,--
"I don't believe they'll any of them turn up; but if they do, this Dr.Nikola, whoever he may be, won't be able to find fault with myarrangements."
Then, leaving the dusty high road of Business, he and his companionwandered in the shady bridle-paths of Love--to the end that when thechief bookkeeper returned to her own department she had forgotten thestrange dinner party about to take place upstairs, and was busilyengaged upon a calculation as to how she would look in white satin andorange blossoms, and, that settled, fell to wondering whether it wastrue, as Miss Joyce, a subordinate, had been heard to declare, that themanager had once shown himself partial to a certain widow with reputedsavings and a share in an extensive egg and dairy business.
At ten minutes to eight precisely a hansom drew up at the steps of thehotel. As soon as it stopped, an undersized gentleman, with a cleanshaven countenance, a canonical corporation, and bow legs, dressed in adecidedly clerical garb, alighted. He paid and discharged his cabman,and then took from his ticket pocket an ordinary white visiting card,which he presented to the gold-laced individual who had opened theapron. The latter, having noted the red spot, called a waiter, and thereverend gentleman was immediately escorted upstairs.
Hardly had the attendant time to return to his station in the hall,before a second cab made its appearance, closely followed by a third.Out of the second jumped a tall, active, well-built man of about thirtyyears of age. He was dressed in evening dress of the latest fashion, andto conceal it from the vulgar gaze, wore a large Inverness cape of heavytexture. He also in his turn handed a white card to the porter, and,having done so, proceeded into the hall, followed by the occupant of thelast cab, who had closely copied his example. This individual was alsoin evening dress, but it was of a different stamp. It was old-fashionedand had seen much use. The wearer, too, was taller than the ordinary runof men, while it was noticeable that his hair was snow-white, and thathis face was deeply pitted with smallpox. After disposing of their hatsand coats in an ante-room, they reached room No. 22, where they foundthe gentleman in clerical costume pacing impatiently up and down.
Left alone, the tallest of the trio, who for want of a better title wemay call the Best Dressed Man, took out his watch, and having glanced atit, looked at his companions. "Gentlemen," he said, with a slightAmerican accent, "it is three minutes to eight o'clock. My name isEastover!"
"I'm glad to hear it, for I'm most uncommonly hungry," said the nexttallest, whom I have already described as being so marked by disease."My name is Prendergast!"
"We only wait for our friend and host," remarked the clerical gentleman,as if he felt he ought to take a share in the conversation, and then, asan afterthought, he continued, "My name is Baxter!"
They shook hands all round with marked cordiality, seated themselvesagain, and took it in turns to examine the clock.
"Have you ever had the pleasure of meeting our host before?" asked Mr.Baxter of Mr. Prendergast.
"Never," replied that gentleman, with a shake of his head. "Perhaps Mr.Eastover has been more fortunate?"
"Not I," was the brief rejoinder. "I've had to do with him off and onfor longer than I care to reckon, but I've never set eyes on him up todate."
"And where may he have been the first time you heard from him?"
"In Nashville, Tennessee," said Eastover. "After that, Tahupapa, NewZealand; after that, Papeete, in the Society Islands; then Pekin, China.And you?"
"First time, Brussels; second, Monte Video; third, Mandalay, and thenthe Gold Coast, Africa. It's your turn, Mr. Baxter."
The clergyman glanced at the timepiece. It was exactly eight o'clock."First time, Cabul, Afghanistan; second, Nijni Novgorod, Russia; third,Wilcannia, Darling River, Australia; fourth, Valparaiso, Chili; fifth,Nagasaki, Japan."
"He is evidently a great traveller and a most mysterious person."
"He is more than that," said Eastover with conviction; "he is late fordinner!"
Prendergast looked at his watch.
"That clock is two minutes fast. Hark, there goes Big Ben! Eightexactly."
As he spoke the door was thrown open and a voice announced "Dr. Nikola."
The three men sprang to their feet simultaneously, with exclamations ofastonishment, as the man they had been discussing made his appearance.
It would take more time than I can spare the subject to give you anadequate and inclusive description of the person who entered the room atthat moment. In stature he was slightly above the ordinary, hisshoulders were broad, his limbs perfectly shaped and plainly muscular,but very slim. His head, which was magnificently set upon his shoulders,was adorned with a profusion of glossy black hair; his face wasdestitute of beard or moustache, and was of oval shape and handsomemoulding; while his skin was of a dark olive hue, a colour whichharmonized well with his piercing black eyes and pearly teeth. His handsand feet were small, and the greatest dandy must have admitted that hewas irreproachably dressed, with a neatness that bordered on thepuritanical. In age he might have been anything from eight-and-twenty toforty; in reality he was thirty-three. He advanced into the room andwalked with out-stretched hand directly across to where Eastover wasstanding by the fireplace.
"Mr. Eastover, I feel certain," he said, fixing his glittering eyes uponthe man he addressed, and allowing a curious smile to play upon hisface.
"That is my name, Dr. Nikola," the other answered with evident surprise."But how on earth can you distinguish me from your other guests?"
"Ah! it would surprise you if you knew. And Mr. Prendergast, and Mr.Baxter. This is delightful; I hope I am not late. We had a collision inthe Channel this morning, and I was almost afraid I might not be up totime. Dinner seems ready; shall we sit down to it?" They seatedthemselves, and the meal commenced. The Imperial Restaurant has earnedan enviable reputation for doing things well, and the dinner that nightdid not in any way detract from its lustre. But, delightful as it allwas, it was noticeable that the three guests paid more attention totheir host than to his excellent _menu_. As they had said before hisarrival, they had all had dealings with him for several years, but whatthose dealings were they were careful not to describe. It was more thanpossible that they hardly liked to remember them themselves.
When coffee had been served and the servants had withdrawn, Dr. Nikolarose from the table, and went across to the massive sideboard. On itstood a basket of very curious shape and workmanship. This he opened,and as he did so, to the astonishment of his guests, an enormous cat, asblack as his master's coat, leaped out on to the floor. The reason forthe saucer and jug of milk became evident.
Seating himself at the table again, the host followed the example of hisguests and lit a cigar, blowing a cloud of smoke luxuriously through hisdelicately chiselled nostrils. His eyes wandered round the cornice ofthe room, took in the pictures and decorations, and then came down tomeet the faces of his companions. As they did so, the black cat, havingfinished its meal, sprang on to his shoulder to crouch there, watchingthe three men through the curling smoke drift with its green blinking,fiendish eyes. Dr. Nikola smiled as he noticed the effect the animal hadupon his guests.
"Now shall we get to business?" he said briskly.
The others almost simultaneously knocked the ashes off their cigars andbrought themselves to attention. Dr. Nikola's dainty, languid mannerseemed to drop from him like a cloak, his eyes brightened, and hisvoice, when he spoke, was clean cut as chiselled silver.
"You are doubtless anxious to be informed why I summoned you from allparts of the globe to meet me here to-night? And it is very natural youshould be. But then, from what you know of me, you should not besurprised at anything I do."
His voice dropped back into its old tone of gentle languor. He drew in agreat breath of smoke and then sent it slowly out from his lips again.His eyes were half closed, and he drummed with one finger on the tableedge. The cat looked through the smoke at the three men, and it seemedto them that he grew every moment larger and more ferocious. Presentlyhis owner took him from his perch, and seating him on his knee fell tostroking his fur, from head to tail, with his long slim fingers. It wasas if he were drawing inspiration for some deadly mischief from theuncanny beast.
"To preface what I have to say to you, let me tell you that this is byfar the most important business for which I have ever required yourhelp. (Three slow strokes down the centre of the back, and one roundeach ear.) When it first came into my mind I was at a loss who to trustin the matter. I thought of Vendon, but I found Vendon was dead. Ithought of Brownlow, but Brownlow was no longer faithful. (Two strokesdown the back and two on the throat.) Then bit by bit I remembered you.I was in Brazil at the time. So I sent for you. You came. So far sogood."
He rose, and crossed over to the fireplace. As he went the cat crawledback to its original position on his shoulder. Then his voice changedonce more to its former business-like tone.
"I am not going to tell you very much about it. But from what I do tellyou, you will be able to gather a great deal and imagine the rest. Tobegin with, there is a man living in this world to-day who has done me agreat and lasting injury. What that injury is is no concern of yours.You would not understand if I told you. So we'll leave that out of thequestion. He is immensely rich. His cheque for £300,000 would behonoured by his bank at any minute. Obviously he is a power. He has hadreason to know that I am pitting my wits against his, and he flattershimself that so far he has got the better of me. That is because I amdrawing him on. I am maturing a plan which will make him a poor and avery miserable man at one and the same time. If that scheme succeeds,and I am satisfied with the way you three men have performed the parts Ishall call on you to play in it, I shall pay to each of you the sum of£10,000. If it doesn't succeed, then you will each receive a thousandand your expenses. Do you follow me?"
It was evident from their faces that they hung upon his every word.
"But, remember, I demand from you your whole and entire labour. Whileyou are serving me you are mine body and soul. I know you aretrustworthy. I have had good proof that you are--pardon theexpression--unscrupulous, and I flatter myself you are silent. What ismore, I shall tell you nothing beyond what is necessary for the carryingout of my scheme, so that you could not betray me if you would. Now formy plans!"
He sat down again and took a paper from his pocket. Having perused it,he turned to Eastover.
"You will leave at once--that is to say, by the boat on Wednesday--forSydney. You will book your passage to-morrow morning, first thing, andjoin her in Plymouth. You will meet me to-morrow evening at an address Iwill send you, and receive your final instructions. Good-night."
Seeing that he was expected to go, Eastover rose, shook hands, and leftthe room without a word. He was too astonished to hesitate or to sayanything.
Nikola took another letter from his pocket and turned to Prendergast."_You_ will go down to Dover to-night, cross to Paris to-morrow morning,and leave this letter personally at the address you will find written onit. On Thursday, at half-past two precisely, you will deliver me ananswer in the porch at Charing Cross. You will find sufficient money inthat envelope to pay all your expenses. Now go!"
"At half-past two you shall have your answer. Good-night."
"Good-night."
When Prendergast had left the room, Dr. Nikola lit another cigar andturned his attentions to Mr. Baxter.
"Six months ago, Mr. Baxter, I found for you a situation as tutor to theyoung Marquis of Beckenham. You still hold it, I suppose?"
"I do."
"Is the father well disposed towards you?"
"In every way. I have done my best to ingratiate myself with him. Thatwas one of your instructions."
"Yes, yes! But I was not certain that you would succeed. If the old manis anything like what he was when I last met him he must still be adifficult person to deal with. Does the boy like you?"
"I hope so."
"Have you brought me his photograph as I directed?"
"I have. Here it is."
Baxter took a photograph from his pocket and handed it across the table.
"Good. You have done very well, Mr. Baxter. I am pleased with you.To-morrow morning you will go back to Yorkshire----"
"I beg your pardon, Bournemouth. His Grace owns a house nearBournemouth, which he occupies during the summer months."
"Very well--then to-morrow morning you will go back to Bournemouth andcontinue to ingratiate yourself with father and son. You will also beginto implant in the boy's mind a desire for travel. Don't let him becomeaware that his desire has its source in you--but do not fail to fosterit all you can. I will communicate with you further in a day or two. Nowgo."
Baxter in his turn left the room. The door closed. Dr. Nikola picked upthe photograph and studied it.
"The likeness is unmistakable--or it ought to be. My friend, my verydear friend, Wetherell, my toils are closing on you. My arrangements areperfecting themselves admirably. Presently, when all is complete, Ishall press the lever, the machinery will be set in motion, and you willfind yourself being slowly but surely ground into powder. Then you willhand over what I want, and be sorry you thought fit to baulk Dr.Nikola!"
He rang the bell and ordered his bill. This duty discharged, he placedthe cat back in its prison, shut the lid, descended with the basket tothe hall, and called a hansom. The porter inquired to what address heshould order the cabman to drive. Dr. Nikola did not reply for a moment,then he said, as if he had been thinking something out: "The _GreenSailor_ public-house, East India Dock Road."



CHAPTER I
I DETERMINE TO TAKE A HOLIDAY.--SYDNEY, AND WHAT BEFEL ME THERE

First and foremost, my name, age, description, and occupation, as theysay in the _Police Gazette_. Richard Hatteras, at your service, commonlycalled Dick, of Thursday Island, North Queensland, pearler, copramerchant, _bêche-de-mer_ and tortoiseshell dealer, and South Sea tradergenerally. Eight-and-twenty years of age, neither particularlygood-looking nor, if some people are to be believed, particularlyamiable, six feet two in my stockings, and forty-six inches round thechest; strong as a Hakodate wrestler, and perfectly willing at anymoment to pay ten pounds sterling to the man who can put me on my back.
And big shame to me if I were not so strong, considering the free,open-air, devil-may-care life I've led. Why, I was doing man's work atan age when most boys are wondering when they're going to be taken outof knickerbockers. I'd been half round the world before I was fifteen,and had been wrecked twice and marooned once before my beard showedsigns of sprouting. My father was an Englishman, not very much profit tohimself, so he used to say, but of a kindly disposition, and the besthusband to my mother, during their short married life, that any womancould possibly have desired. She, poor soul, died of fever in thePhilippines the year I was born, and he went to the bottom in theschooner _Helen of Troy_, a degree west of the Line Islands, within sixmonths of her decease; struck the tail end of a cyclone, it was thought,and went down, lock, stock, and barrel, leaving only one man to tell thetale. So I lost father and mother in the same twelve months, and thatbeing so, when I put my cabbage-tree on my head it covered, as far as Iknew, all my family in the world.
Any way you look at it, it's calculated to give you a turn; at fifteenyears of age, to know that there's not a living soul on the face ofGod's globe that you can take by the hand and call relation. That oldsaying about "blood being thicker than water" is a pretty true one, Ireckon: friends may be kind--they were so to me--but after all they'renot the same thing, nor can they be, as your own kith and kin.
However, I had to look my trouble in the face, and stand up to it as aman should, and I suppose this kept me from brooding over my loss asmuch as I should otherwise have done. At any rate, ten days after thenews reached me, I had shipped aboard the _Little Emily_, tradingschooner, for Papeete, booked for five years among the islands, where Iwas to learn to water copra, to cook my balances, and to lay thefoundation of the strange adventures that I am going to tell you about.
After my time expired and I had served my Trading Company on half themudbanks of the Pacific, I returned to Australia and went up inside theGreat Barrier Reef to Somerset--the pearling station that had just comeinto existence on Cape York. They were good days there then, before allthe new-fangled laws that now regulate the pearling trade had come intoforce; days when a man could do almost as he liked among the islands inthose seas. I don't know how other folk liked it, but the life justsuited me--so much so that when Somerset proved inconvenient and thesettlement shifted across to Thursday, I went with it, and, what wasmore to the point, with money enough at my back to fit myself out with abrand-new lugger and full crew, so that I could go pearling on my ownaccount.
For many years I went at it head down, and this brings me up to fouryears ago, when I was a grown man, the owner of a house, two luggers,and as good a diving plant as any man could wish to possess. What wasmore, just before this I had put some money into a mining concern on themainland, which had, contrary to most ventures of the sort, turned uptrumps, giving me as my share the nice round sum of £5,000. With allthis wealth at my back, and having been in harness for a greater numberof years on end than I cared to count, I made up my mind to take aholiday and go home to England to see the place where my father wasborn, and had lived his early life (I found the name of it written inthe fly-leaf of an old Latin book he left me), and to have a look at acountry I'd heard so much about, but never thought to set my foot upon.
Accordingly I packed my traps, let my house, sold my luggers and gear,intending to buy new ones when I returned, said good-bye to my friendsand shipmates, and set off to join an Orient liner in Sydney. You willsee from this that I intended doing the thing in style! And why not? I'dgot more money to my hand to play with than most of the swells whopatronize the first saloon; I had earned it honestly, and was resolvedto enjoy myself with it to the top of my bent.
I reached Sydney a week before the boat was advertised to sail, but Ididn't fret much about that. There's plenty to see and do in such a bigplace, and when a man's been shut away from theatres and amusements foryears at a stretch, he can put in his time pretty well looking abouthim. All the same, not knowing a soul in the place, I must confess therewere moments when I did think regretfully of the little island hiddenaway up north under the wing of New Guinea, of the luggers dancing tothe breeze in the harbour, and the warm welcome that always awaited meamong my friends in the saloons. Take my word for it, there's somethingin even being a leader on a small island. Anyway, it's better than beinga deadbeat in a big city like Sydney, where nobody knows you, and yournext-door neighbour wouldn't miss you if he never saw or heard of youagain.
I used to think of these things as I marched about the streets lookingin at shop windows, or took excursions up and down the harbour. There'sno place like Sydney Harbour in the wide, wide world for beauty, andbefore I'd been there a week I was familiar with every part of it.Still, it would have been _more_ enjoyable, as I hinted just now, if Ihad had a friend to tour about with me; and by the same token I'm doingone man an injustice.
There was _one_ fellow, I remember, who did offer to show me round: Ifell across him in a saloon in George Street. He was tall and handsome,and as spic and span as a new pin till you came to look under thesurface. When he entered the bar he winked at the girl who was servingme, and as soon as I'd finished my drink asked me to take another withhim. Seeing what his little game was, and wanting to teach him a lesson,I lured him on by consenting. I drank with him, and then he drank withme.
"Been long in Sydney?" he inquired casually, as he stroked his fairmoustache.
"Just come in," was my reply.
"Don't you find it dull work going about alone?" he inquired. "I shallnever forget my first week of it."
"You're about right," I answered. "It is dull! I don't know a soul, barmy banker and lawyer."
"Dear me!" (more curling of the moustache). "If I can be of any serviceto you while you're here, I hope you'll command me. I believe we're bothEnglishmen, eh?"
"It's very good of you," I replied modestly, affecting to be overcome byhis condescension. "I'm just off to lunch. I am staying at the _Quebec_.Is it far enough for a hansom?" As he was about to answer, a lawyer,with whom I had done a little business the day before, walked into theroom. I turned to my patronising friend and said, "Will you excuse mefor one moment? I want to speak to this gentleman."
He was still all graciousness.
"I'll call a hansom and wait for you in it."
When he had left the saloon I spoke to the new arrival. He had noticedthe man I had been talking to, and was kind enough to warn me againsthim.
"That man," he said, "bears a very bad reputation. He makes it his tradeto meet new arrivals from England--weak-brained young pigeons withmoney. He shows them round Sydney, and plucks them so clean that, whenthey leave his hands, in nine cases out of ten, they haven't a featherleft to fly with. You ought not, with your experience of roughcustomers, to be taken in by him."
"Nor am I," I replied. "I am going to teach him a lesson. Come with me."
Arm in arm we walked into the street, watched by Mr. Hawk from his seatin the cab. When we got there we stood for a moment chatting, and thenstrolled together down the pavement. Next moment I heard the cab comingalong after us, and my friend hailing me in his silkiest tones; butthough I looked him full in the face I pretended not to know him. Seeingthis he drove past us--pulled up a little farther down and sprang out towait for me.
"I was almost afraid I had missed you," he began, as we came up withhim. "Perhaps as it is such a fine day you would rather walk than ride?"
"I beg your pardon," I answered. "I'm really afraid you have theadvantage of me."
"But you have asked me to lunch with you at the _Quebec_. You told me tocall a hansom."
"Pardon me again! but you are really mistaken. I said I was going tolunch at the _Quebec_, and asked you if it was far enough to be worthwhile taking a hansom. That is your hansom, not mine. If you don'trequire it any longer, I should advise you to pay the man and let himgo."
"You are a swindler, sir. I refuse to pay the cabman. It is yourhansom."
I took a step closer to my fine gentleman, and, looking him full in theface, said as quietly as possible, for I didn't want all the street tohear:
"Mr. _Dorunda_ Dodson, let this be a lesson to you. Perhaps you'll thinktwice next time before you try your little games on me!"
He stepped back as if he had been shot, hesitated a moment, and thenjumped into his cab and drove off in the opposite direction. When he hadgone I looked at my astonished companion.
"Well, now," he ejaculated at last, "how on earth did you manage that?"
"Very easily," I replied. "I happened to remember having met thatgentleman up in our part of the world when he was in a very awkwardposition--very awkward. By his action just now I should say that he hasnot forgotten the circumstance any more than I have."
That was the first of the only two adventures of any importance I metwith during my stay in New South Wales. And there's not much in that, Ifancy I can hear you saying. Well, that may be so, I don't deny it, butit was nevertheless through that that I became mixed up with the folkwho figure in this book, and indeed it was to that very circumstance,and that alone, I owe my connection with the queer story I have setmyself to tell. And this is how it came about.
Three days before the steamer sailed, and about four o'clock in theafternoon, I chanced to be walking down Castlereagh Street, wonderingwhat on earth I should do with myself until dinner-time, when I sawapproaching me the very man whose discomfiture I have just described.Being probably occupied planning the plucking of some unfortunate newchum, he did not see me. And as I had no desire to meet him again, afterwhat had passed between us, I crossed the road and meandered off in adifferent direction, eventually finding myself located on a seat in theDomain, lighting a cigarette and looking down over a broad expanse ofharbour.
One thought led to another, and so I sat on and on long after dusk hadfallen, never stirring until a circumstance occurred on a neighbouringpath that attracted my attention. A young and well-dressed lady waspursuing her way in my direction, evidently intending to leave the parkby the entrance I had used to come into it. But unfortunately for her,at the junction of two paths to my right, three of Sydney's typicallarrikins were engaged in earnest conversation. They had observed thegirl coming towards them, and were evidently preparing some plan foraccosting her. When she was only about fifty yards away, two of themwalked to a distance, leaving the third and biggest ruffian to waylayher. He did so, but without success; she passed him and continued herwalk at increased speed.
The man thereupon quickened his pace, and, secure in the knowledge thathe was unobserved, again accosted her. Again she tried to escape him,but this time he would not leave her. What was worse, his two friendswere now blocking the path in front. She looked to right and left, andwas evidently uncertain what to do. Then, seeing escape was hopeless,she stopped, took out her purse, and gave it to the man who had firstspoken to her. Thinking this was going too far, I jumped up and wentquickly across the turf towards them. My footsteps made no sound on thesoft grass, and as they were too much occupied in examining what she hadgiven them, they did not notice my approach.
"You scoundrels!" I said, when I had come up with them. "What do youmean by stopping this lady? Let her go instantly; and you, my friend,just hand over that purse."
The man addressed looked at me as if he were taking my measure, and werewondering what sort of chance he'd have against me in a fight. But Isuppose my height must have rather scared him, for he changed his toneand began to whine.
"I haven't got the lady's purse, s'help me, I ain't! I was only a askingof 'er the time!"
"Hand over that purse!" I said sternly, approaching a step nearer tohim.
One of the others here intervened,--"Let's stowch 'im, Dog! There ain'ta copper in sight!"
With that they began to close upon me. But, as the saying goes, "I'dbeen there before." I'd not been knocking about the rough side of theworld for fifteen years without learning how to take care of myself.When they had had about enough of it, which was most likely more thanthey had bargained for, I took the purse and went to where the innocentcause of it all was standing. She was looking very white and scared, butshe plucked up sufficient courage to thank me prettily.
I can see her now, standing there looking into my face with big tears inher pretty blue eyes. She was a girl of about twenty-one or two years ofage--tall, but slenderly built, with a sweet oval face, bright brownhair, and the most beautiful eyes I have ever seen in my life. She wasdressed in some dark green material, wore a fawn jacket, and, becausethe afternoon was cold, had a boa of marten fur round her neck. I canremember also that her hat was of some flimsy make, with lace andglittering spear points in it, and that the whole structure wassurmounted by two bows, one of black ribbon, the other of salmon pink.
"Oh, how can I thank you?" she began, when I had come up with her. "Butfor your appearance I don't know what those men might not have done tome."
"I was very glad that I _was_ there to help you," I replied, lookinginto her face with more admiration for its warm young beauty thanperhaps I ought to have shown. "Here is your purse. I hope you will findits contents safe. At the same time will you let me give you a littlepiece of advice. From what I have seen this afternoon this is evidentlynot the sort of place for a young lady to be walking in alone and afterdark. I don't think I would risk it again if I were you."
She looked at me for a moment and then said:
"You are quite right. I have only myself to thank for my misfortune. Imet a friend and walked across the green with her; I was on my way backto my carriage--which is waiting for me outside--when I met those men.However, I can promise you that it will not happen again. I am leavingSydney in a day or two."
Somehow, when I heard that, I began to feel glad I was booked to leavethe place too. But of course I didn't tell her so.
"May I see you safely to your carriage?" I said at last. "Those fellowsmay still be hanging about on the chance of overtaking you."
Her courage must have come back to her, for she looked up into my facewith a smile.
"I don't think they will be rude to me again, after the lesson you havegiven them. But if you will walk with me I shall be very grateful."
Side by side we proceeded down the path, through the gates and out intothe street. A neat brougham was drawn up alongside the kerb, and towardsthis she made her way. I opened the door and held it for her to get in.But before she did so she turned to me and stretched out her littlehand.
"Will you tell me your name, that I may know to whom I am indebted?"
"My name is Hatteras. Richard Hatteras, of Thursday Island, TorresStraits. I am staying at the _Quebec_."
"Thank you, Mr. Hatteras, again and again. I shall always be grateful toyou for your gallantry!"
This was attaching too much importance to such a simple action, and Iwas about to tell her so, when she spoke again: "I think I ought to letyou know who I am. My name is Wetherell, and my father is the ColonialSecretary. I'm sure he will be quite as grateful to you as I am.Good-bye."
She seemed to forget that we had already shaken hands, for she extendedher own a second time. I took it and tried to say something polite, butshe stepped into her carriage and shut the door before I could think ofanything, and next moment she was being whirled away up the street.
Now old fogies and disappointed spinsters can say what they please aboutlove at first sight. I'm not a romantic sort of person--far from it--thesort of life I had hitherto led was not of a nature calculated to fostera belief in that sort of thing. But if I wasn't over head and ears inlove when I resumed my walk that evening, well, I've never known whatthe passion is.
A daintier, prettier, sweeter little angel surely never walked the earththan the girl I had just been permitted the opportunity of rescuing, andfrom that moment forward I found my thoughts constantly reverting toher. I seemed to retain the soft pressure of her fingers in mine forhours afterwards, and as a proof of the perturbed state of my feelings Imay add that I congratulated myself warmly on having worn that day mynew and fashionable Sydney suit, instead of the garments in which I hadtravelled down from Torres Straits, and which I had hitherto consideredquite good enough for even high days and holidays. That she herselfwould remember me for more than an hour never struck me as being likely.
Next morning I donned my best suit again, gave myself an extra brush up,and sauntered down town to see if I could run across her in the streets.What reason I had for thinking I should is more than I can tell you, butat any rate I was not destined to be disappointed. Crossing GeorgeStreet a carriage passed me, and in it sat the girl whose fair image hadexercised such an effect upon my mind. That she saw and recognized mewas evidenced by the gracious bow and smile with which she favoured me.Then she passed out of sight, and it was a wonder that that minutedidn't see the end of my career, for I stood like one in a dream lookingin the direction in which she had gone, and it was not until two cartsand a brewer's wagon had nearly run me down that I realized it would besafer for me to pursue my meditations on the side walk.
I got back to my hotel by lunch-time, and during the progress of thatmeal a brilliant idea struck me. Supposing I plucked up courage andcalled? Why not? It would be only a polite action to inquire if she wereany the worse for her fright. The thought was no sooner born in my brainthan I was eager to be off. But it was too early for such a formalbusiness, so I had to cool my heels in the hall for an hour. Then,hailing a hansom and inquiring the direction of their residence, I droveoff to Potts Point. The house was the last in the street--an imposingmansion standing in well-laid-out grounds. The butler answered my ring,and in response to my inquiry dashed my hopes to the ground by informingme that Miss Wetherell was out.
"She's very busy, you see, at present, sir. She and the master leave forEngland on Friday in the _Orizaba_."
"What!" I cried, almost forgetting myself in my astonishment. "You don'tmean to say that Miss Wetherell goes to England in the _Orizaba_?"
"I do, sir. And I do hear she's goin' 'ome to be presented at Court,sir!"
"Ah! Thank you. Will you give her my card, and say that I hope she isnone the worse for her fright last evening?"
He took the card, and a substantial tip with it, and I went back to mycab in the seventh heaven of delight. I was to be shipmates with thislovely creature! For four weeks or more I should be able to see herevery day! It seemed almost too good to be true. Instinctively I beganto make all sorts of plans and preparations. Who knew but what--butstay, we must bring ourselves up here with a round turn, or we shall beanticipating what's to come.
To make a long story short--for it must be remembered that what I amtelling you is only the prelude to all the extraordinary things thatwill have to be told later on--the day of sailing came. I went down tothe boat on the morning of her departure, and got my baggage safelystowed away in my cabin before the rush set in.
About three o'clock we hove our anchor and steamed slowly down the Bay.I had been below when the Wetherells arrived on board, so the young ladyhad not yet become aware of my presence. Whether she would betray anyastonishment when she did find out was beyond my power to tell; at anyrate, I know that I was by a long way the happiest man aboard the boatthat day. However, I was not to be kept long in suspense. Before we hadreached the Heads it was all settled, and satisfactorily so. I wasstanding on the promenade deck, just abaft the main saloon entrance,watching the panorama spread out before me, when I heard a voice Irecognized only too well say behind me:
"Good-bye to you, dear old Sydney. Great things will have happened whenI set eyes on you again."
Little did she know how prophetic were her words. As she spoke I turnedand confronted her. For a moment she was overwhelmed with surprise,then, stretching out her hand, she said:
"Really, Mr. Hatteras, this is most wonderful. You are the last person Iexpected to meet on board."
"And perhaps," I replied, "I might with justice say the same of you."
She turned to a tall, white-bearded man beside her.
"Papa, I must introduce you to Mr. Hatteras. You will remember I toldyou how kind Mr. Hatteras was when those larrikins were rude to me inthe Domain."
"I am sincerely obliged to you, Mr. Hatteras," he said, holding out hishand and shaking mine heartily. "My daughter did tell me, and I calledyesterday at your hotel to thank you personally, but you wereunfortunately not at home. Are you visiting Europe?"
"Yes; I'm going home for a short visit to see the place where my fatherwas born."
"Are you then, like myself, an Australian native? I mean, of course, asyou know, colonial born?" asked Miss Wetherell with a little laugh. Theidea of her calling herself an Australian native in any other sense! Thevery notion seemed preposterous.
"I was born at sea, a degree and a half south of Mauritius," I answered;"so I don't know what you would call me. I hope you have comfortablecabins?"
"Very. We have made two or three voyages in this boat before, and wealways take the same places. And now, papa, we must really go and seewhere poor Miss Thompson is. We are beginning to feel the swell, andshe'll be wanting to go below. Good-bye for the present."
I raised my cap and watched her walk away down the deck, balancingherself as if she had been accustomed to a heaving plank all her life.Then I turned to watch the fast receding shore, and to my own thoughts,which were none of the saddest, I can assure you. For it must beconfessed here--and why should I deny it?--that I was in love from thesoles of my deck shoes to the cap upon my head. But as to the chance,that I, a humble pearler, would stand with one of Sydney's mostbeautiful daughters--why, that's another matter, and one that, for thepresent, I was anxious to keep behind me.
Within the week we had left Adelaide behind us, and four days laterAlbany was also a thing of the past. By the time we had cleared theLewin we had all settled down to our life aboard ship, the bad sailorswere beginning to appear on deck again, and the medium voyagers to makevarious excuses for their absences from meals. One thing was evident,that Miss Wetherell was the belle of the ship. Everybody paid herattention, from the skipper down to the humblest deck hand. And thisbeing so, I prudently kept out of the way, for I had no desire to bethought to presume on our previous acquaintance. Whether she noticedthis I cannot tell, but at any rate her manner to me when we _did_ speakwas more cordial than I had any right or reason to expect it would be.Seeing this, there were not wanting people on board who scoffed andsneered at the idea of the Colonial Secretary's daughter noticing sohumble a person as myself, and when it became known what my exact socialposition was, I promise you these malicious whisperings did not cease.
One evening, two or three days after we had left Colombo behind us, Iwas standing at the rails on the promenade deck a little abaft thesmoking-room entrance, when Miss Wetherell came up and took her placebeside me. She looked very dainty and sweet in her evening dress, and Ifelt, if I had known her better, I should have liked to tell her so.
"Mr. Hatteras," said she, when we had discussed the weather and thesunset, "I have been thinking lately that you desire to avoid me."
"Heaven forbid! Miss Wetherell," I hastened to reply. "What on earth putsuch a notion into your head?"
"All the same I believe it to be true. Now, why do you do it?"
"I have not admitted that I do do it. But, perhaps, if I do seem to denymyself the pleasure of being with you as much as some other people Icould mention, it is only because I fail to see what possible enjoymentyou can derive from my society."
"That is a very pretty speech," she answered, smiling, "but it does nottell me what I want to know."
"And what is it that you want to know, my dear young lady?"
"I want to know why you are so much changed towards me. At first we goton splendidly--you used to tell me of your life in Torres Straits, ofyour trading ventures in the Southern Seas, and even of your hopes forthe future. Now, however, all that is changed. It is, 'Good-morning,Miss Wetherell,' 'Good-evening, Miss Wetherell,' and that is all. I mustown I don't like such treatment."
"I must crave your pardon--but----"
"No, we won't have any 'buts.' If you want to be forgiven, you must comeand talk to me as you used to do. You will like the rest of the peopleI'm sure when you get to know them. They are very kind to me."
"And you think I shall like them for that reason?"
"No, no. How silly you are. But I do so want you to be friendly."
After that there was nothing for it but for me to push myself into acircle where I had the best reasons for knowing that I was not wanted.However, it had its good side: I saw more of Miss Wetherell; so muchmore indeed that I began to notice that her father did not quite approveof it. But, whatever he may have thought, he said nothing to me on thesubject.
A fortnight or so later we were at Aden, leaving that barren rock aboutfour o'clock, and entering the Red Sea the same evening. The Suez Canalpassed through, and Port Said behind us, we were in the Mediterranean,and for the first time in my life I stood in Europe.
At Naples the Wetherells were to say good-bye to the boat, and continuethe rest of their journey home across the Continent. As the hour ofseparation approached, I must confess I began to dread it more and more.And somehow, I fancy, _she_ was not quite as happy as she used to be.You will probably ask what grounds I had for believing that a girl likeMiss Wetherell would take any interest in a man like myself; and it is aquestion I can no more answer than I can fly. And yet, when I came tothink it all out, I was not without my hopes.
We were to reach port the following morning. The night was very still,the water almost unruffled. Somehow it came about that Miss Wetherelland I found ourselves together in the same sheltered spot where she hadspoken to me on the occasion referred to before. The stars in the eastwere paling, preparatory to the rising of the moon. I glanced at mycompanion as she leant against the rails scanning the quiet sea, andnoticed the sweet wistfulness of her expression. Then, suddenly, a greatdesire came over me to tell her of my love. Surely, even if she couldnot return it, there would be no harm in letting her know how I felttowards her. For this reason I drew a little closer to her.
"And so. Miss Wetherell," I said, "to-morrow we are to say good-bye;never, perhaps, to meet again."
"Oh, no, Mr. Hatteras," she answered, "we won't say that. Surely weshall see something of each other somewhere. The world is very tinyafter all."
"To those who desire to avoid each other, perhaps, but for those whowish to _find_ it is still too large."
"Well, then, we must hope for the best. Who knows but that we may runacross each other in London. I think it is very probable."
"And will that meeting be altogether distasteful to you?" I asked, quiteexpecting that she would answer with her usual frankness. But to mysurprise she did not speak, only turned half away from me. Had Ioffended her?
"Miss Wetherell, pray forgive my rudeness," I said hastily. "I ought tohave known I had no right to ask you such a question."
"And why shouldn't you?" she replied, this time turning her sweet facetowards me. "No, I will tell you frankly, I should very much like to seeyou again."
With that all the blood in my body seemed to rush to my head. Could I bedreaming? Or had she really said she would like to see me again? I wouldtry my luck now whatever came of it.
"You cannot think how pleasant our intercourse has been to me," I said."And now I have to go back to my lonely, miserable existence again."
"But you should not say that; you have your work in life!"
"Yes, but what is that to me when I have no one to work for? Can youconceive anything more awful than my loneliness? Remember, as far as Iknow I am absolutely without kith and kin. There is not a single soul tocare for me in the whole world--not one to whom my death would be amatter of the least concern."
"Oh, don't--don't say that!" Her voice faltered so that I turned fromthe sea and contemplated her.
"It is true, Miss Wetherell, bitterly true."
"It is not true. It cannot be true!"
"If only I could think it would be some little matter of concern to youI should go back to my work with a happier heart."
Again she turned her face from me. My arm lay beside hers upon thebulwarks, and I could feel that she was trembling. Brutal though it mayseem to say so, this gave me fresh courage. I said slowly, bending myface a little towards her:
"Would it affect you, Phyllis?"
One little hand fell from the bulwarks to her side, and I tookpossession of it. She did not appear to have heard my question, so Irepeated it. Then her head went down upon the bulwarks, but not before Ihad caught the whispered "yes" that escaped her lips.
Before she could guess what was going to happen, I had taken her in myarms and smothered her face with kisses. Nor did she offer anyresistance. I knew the whole truth now. She was mine, she lovedme--me--me--me! The whole world seemed to re-echo the news, the very seato ring with it, and just as I learned from her own dear lips the storyof her love, the great moon rose as if to listen. Can you imagine myhappiness, my delight? She was mine, this lovely girl, my very own!bound to me by all the bonds of love. Oh, happy hour! Oh, sweet delight!I pressed her to my heart again and again. She looked into my face andthen away from me, her sweet eyes suffused with tears, then suddenly herexpression changed. I turned to see what ailed her, and to mydiscomfiture discovered her father stalking along the silent decktowards us.
Whispering to her to leave us, she sped away, and I was left alone withher angry parent. That he _was_ angry I judged from his face; nor was Iwrong in my conjecture.
"Mr. Hatteras," he said severely, "pray what does this mean? How is itthat I find you in this undignified position with my daughter?"
"Mr. Wetherell," I answered, "I can see that an explanation is due toyou. Just before you came up I was courageous enough to tell yourdaughter that I loved her. She has been generous enough to inform methat she returns my affection. And now the best course for me to pursueis to ask your permission to make her my wife."
"You presume, sir, upon the service you rendered my daughter in Sydney.I did not think you would follow it up in this fashion."
"Your daughter is free to love whom she pleases, I take it," I said, mytemper getting a little the better of my judgment. "She has been goodenough to promise to marry me--if I can obtain your permission. Have youany objection to raise?"
"Only one, and that one is insuperable! Understand me, I forbid it onceand for all! In every particular--without hope of change--I forbid it!"
"As you must see it is a matter which affects the happiness of twolives, I feel sure you will be good enough to tell me your reasons?"
"I must decline any discussion on the matter at all. You have my answer,I forbid it!"
"This is to be final, then? I am to understand that you are not to bebrought to change your mind by any actions of mine?"
"No, sir, I am not! What I have said is irrevocable. The idea is not tobe thought of for a moment. And while I am on this subject let me tellyou that your conduct towards my daughter on board this ship has beenvery distasteful to me. I have the honour to wish you a verygood-evening."
"Stay, Mr. Wetherell," I said, as he turned to go. "You have been kindenough to favour me with your views. Now I will give you mine. Yourdaughter loves me. I am an honest and an industrious man, and I love herwith my whole heart and soul. I tell you now, and though you decline totreat me with proper fairness, I give you warning that I intend to marryher if she will still have me--with your consent or without it!"
"You are insolent, sir."
"I assure you I have no desire to be. I endeavour to remember that youare her father, though I must own you lack her sense of what is fair andright."
"I will not discuss the question any further with you. You know myabsolute decision. Good-night!"
With anger and happiness struggling in my breast for the mastery, Ipaced that deck for hours. My heart swelled with joy at the knowledgethat my darling loved me, but it sank like lead when I considered thedifficulties which threatened us if her father persisted in his presentdetermination. At last, just as eight bells was striking (twelveo'clock), I went below to my cabin. My fellow-passenger was fastasleep--a fact which I was grateful for when I discovered proppedagainst my bottle-rack a tiny envelope with my name upon it. Tearing itopen I read the following:--
     "MY OWN DEAREST,--
     "My father has just informed me of his interview with you. I cannot     understand it or ascribe a reason for it. But whatever happens,     remember that I will be your wife, and the wife of no other.
     "May God bless and keep you always.     "Your own,     "PHYLLIS.
     "P.S.--Before we leave the ship you must let me know your address     in London."
With such a letter under my pillow, can it be doubted that my dreamswere good? Little I guessed the accumulation of troubles to which thislittle unpleasantness with Mr. Wetherell was destined to be the prelude!



CHAPTER II
LONDON

Now that I come to think the matter out, I don't know that I could giveyou any definite idea of what my first impressions of London were. Onething at least is certain, I had never had experience of anythingapproaching such a city before, and, between ourselves, I can't say thatI ever want to again. The constant rush and roar of traffic, the crowdsof people jostling each other on the pavements, the happiness and themisery, the riches and the poverty, all mixed up together in one jumble,like good and bad fruit in a basket, fairly took my breath away; andwhen I went down, that first afternoon, and saw the Park in all itssummer glory, my amazement may be better imagined than described.
I could have watched the carriages, horsemen, and promenaders for hourson end without any sense of weariness. And when a bystander, seeing thatI was a stranger, took compassion upon my ignorance and condescended topoint out to me the various celebrities present, my pleasure wascomplete. There certainly is no place like London for show and glitter,I'll grant you that; but all the same I'd no more think of taking up mypermanent abode in it than I'd try to cross the Atlantic in a Chinesesampan.
Having before I left Sydney been recommended to a quiet hotel in aneighbourhood near the Strand, convenient both for sight-seeing andbusiness, I had my luggage conveyed thither, and prepared to make myselfcomfortable for a time. Every day I waited eagerly for a letter from mysweetheart, the more impatiently because its non-arrival convinced methat they had not yet arrived in London. As it turned out, they haddelayed their departure from Naples for two days, and had spent anotherthree in Florence, two in Rome, and a day and a half in Paris.
One morning, however, my faithful watch over the letter rack, which wasalready becoming a standing joke in the hotel, was rewarded. An envelopebearing an English stamp and postmark, and addressed in a handwriting asfamiliar to me as my own, stared me in the face. To take it out andbreak the seal was the work of a moment. It was only a matter of a fewlines, but it brought me news that raised me to the seventh heaven ofdelight.
Mr. and Miss Wetherell had arrived in London the previous afternoon,they were staying at the _Hôtel Métropole_, would leave town for thecountry at the end of the week, but in the meantime, if I wished to seeher, my sweetheart would be in the entrance hall of the British Museumthe following morning at eleven o'clock.
How I conducted myself in the interval between my receipt of the letterand the time of the appointment, I have not the least remembrance; Iknow, however, that half-past ten, on the following morning, found mepacing up and down the street before that venerable pile, scanning witheager eyes every conveyance that approached me. The minutes dragged bywith intolerable slowness, but at length the time arrived.
A kindly church clock in the neighbourhood struck the hour, and othersall round it immediately took up the tale. Before the last stroke haddied away a hansom turned towards the gates from Bury Street, and in it,looking the picture of health and beauty, sat the girl who, I had goodreason to know, was more than all the world to me. To attract herattention and signal to the driver to pull up was the work of a second,and a minute later I had helped her to alight, and we were strollingtogether across the square towards the building.
"Ah, Dick," she said, with a roguish smile, "you don't know what troubleI had to get away this morning. Papa had a dozen places he wished me togo to with him. But when I told him that I had some very importantbusiness of my own to attend to before I could go calling, he was kindenough to let me off."
"I'll be bound he thought you meant business with a dressmaker," Ilaughingly replied, determined to show her that I was not unversed inthe ways of women.
"I'm afraid he did," she answered, blushing, "and I feel horriblyguilty. But my heart told me I must see you at once, whatever happened."
Could any man desire a prettier speech than that? If so, I was not thatman. We were inside the building by this time, ascending the greatstaircase.
As we entered the room at the top of the stairs, I thought it a goodopportunity to ask the question I had been longing to put to her.
"Phyllis, my sweetheart," I said, with a tremor in my voice, "it is afortnight now since I spoke to you. You have had plenty of time toconsider our position. Have you regretted giving me your love?"
We came to a standstill, and leant over a case together, but what itcontained I'm sure I haven't the very vaguest idea.
She looked up into my face with a sweet smile.
"Not for one single instant, Dick! Having once given you my love, is itlikely I should want it back again?"
"I don't know. Somehow I can't discover sufficient reason for yourgiving it to me at all."
"Well, be sure I'm not going to tell you. You might grow conceited.Isn't it sufficient that I _do_ love you, and that I am not going togive you up, whatever happens?"
"More than sufficient," I answered solemnly. "But, Phyllis, don't youthink I can induce your father to relent? Surely as a good parent hemust be anxious to promote your happiness at any cost to himself?"
"I can't understand it at all. He has been so devoted to me all my lifethat his conduct now is quite inexplicable. Never once has he denied meanything I really set my heart upon, and he always promised me that Ishould be allowed to marry whomsoever I pleased, provided he was a goodand honourable man, and one of whom he could in any way approve. And youare all that, Dick, or I shouldn't have loved you, I know."
"I don't think I'm any worse than the ordinary run of men, dearest, if Iam no better. At any rate I love you with a true and honourable love.But don't you think he will come round in time?"
"I'm almost afraid not. He referred to it only yesterday, and seemedquite angry that I should have dared to entertain any thought of youafter what he said to me on board ship. It was the first time in my lifehe ever spoke to me in such a tone, and I felt it keenly. No, Dick,there is something behind it all that I cannot understand. Some mysterythat I would give anything to fathom. Papa has not been himself eversince we started for England. Indeed, his very reason for coming at allis an enigma to me. And now that he _is_ here, he seems in continualdread of meeting somebody--but who that somebody is, and why my father,who has the name and reputation of being such a courageous, determined,honourable man, should be afraid, is a thing I cannot understand."
"It's all very mysterious and unfortunate. But surely something can bedone? Don't you think if I were to see him again, and put the mattermore plainly before him, something might be arranged?"
"It would be worse than useless at present, I fear. No, you must justleave it to me, and I'll do my best to talk him round. Ever since mymother died I have been as his right hand, and it will be strange if hedoes not listen to me and see reason in the end."
Seeing who it was that would plead with him I did not doubt it.
By this time we had wandered through many rooms and now found ourselvesin the Egyptian Department, surrounded by embalmed dead folk and queerobjects of all sorts and descriptions. There was something almoststartling about our love-making in such a place, among these men andwomen, whose wooings had been conducted in a country so widely differentto ours, and in an age that was dead and gone over two thousand yearsere we were born. I spoke of this to Phyllis. She laughed and gave alittle shiver.
"I wonder," she said, looking down on the swathed-up figure of aprincess of the royal house of Egypt, lying stretched out in the casebeside which we sat, "if this great lady, who lies so still and silentnow, had any trouble with her love affair?"
"Perhaps she had more than one beau to her string, and not being allowedto have one took the other," I answered; "though from what we can see ofher now she doesn't look as if she were ever capable of exercising muchfascination, does she?"
As I spoke I looked from the case to the girl and compared theswaddled-up figure with the healthy, living, lovely creature by my side.But I hadn't much time for comparison. My sweetheart had taken her watchfrom her pocket and was glancing at the dial.
"A quarter to twelve!" she cried in alarm, "Oh, Dick, I must be going. Ipromised to meet papa at twelve, and I must not keep him waiting."
She rose and was about to pull on her gloves. But before she had time todo so I had taken a little case from my pocket and opened it. When shesaw what it contained she could not help a little womanly cry ofdelight.
"Oh, Dick! you naughty, extravagant boy!"
"Why, dearest? Why naughty or extravagant to give the woman I love alittle token of my affection?" As I spoke I slipped the ring over herpretty ringer and raised the hand to my lips.
"Will you try," I said, "whenever you look at that ring, to rememberthat the man who gave it to you loves you with his whole heart and soul,and will count no trouble too great, or no exertion too hard, to makeyou happy?"
"I will remember," she said solemnly, and when I looked I saw that tearsstood in her eyes. She brushed them hastily away, and after an interludewhich it hardly becomes me to mention here, we went down the stairsagain and out into the street, almost in silence.
Having called a cab, I placed her in it and nervously asked the questionthat had been sometime upon my mind:--"When shall I see you again?"
"I cannot tell," she answered. "Perhaps next week. But I'll let youknow. In the meantime don't despair; all will come right yet. Good-bye."
"Good-bye and God bless you!"
Having seen the last of her I wandered slowly down the pavement towardsOxford Street, then turning to my left hand, made my way citywards. Mymind was full of my interview with the sweet girl who had just left me,and I wandered on and on, wrapped in my own thoughts, until I foundmyself in a quarter of London into which I had never hithertopenetrated. The streets were narrow, and, as if to be in keeping withthe general air of gloom, the shops were small and their wares of apeculiarly sordid nature.
A church clock somewhere in the neighbourhood struck "One," and as I wasbeginning to feel hungry, and knew myself to be a long way from myhotel, I cast about me for a lunching-place. But it was some time beforeI encountered the class of restaurant I wanted. When I did it wassituated at the corner of two streets, carried a foreign name over thedoor, and, though considerably the worse for wear, presented a cleanerappearance than any other I had as yet experienced.
Pushing the door open I entered. An unmistakable Frenchman, whoseappearance, however, betokened long residence in England, stood behind anarrow counter polishing an absinthe glass. He bowed politely and askedmy business.
"Can I have lunch?" I asked.
"Oui, monsieur! Cer-tain-lee. If monsieur will walk upstairs I will takehis order."
Waving his hand in the direction of a staircase in the corner of theshop he again bowed elaborately, while I, following the direction heindicated, proceeded to the room above. It was long and lofty, commandedan excellent view of both thoroughfares, and was furnished with a fewinferior pictures, half a dozen small marble-top tables, and four timesas many chairs.
When I entered three men were in occupation. Two were playing chess at aside table, while the third, who had evidently no connection with them,was watching the game from a distance, at the same time pretending to beabsorbed in his paper. Seating myself at a table near the door, Iexamined the bill of fare, selected my lunch, and in order to amusemyself while it was preparing, fell to scrutinizing my companions.
Of the chess-players, one was a big, burly fellow, with enormous arms,protruding rheumy eyes, a florid complexion, and a voluminous red beard.His opponent was of a much smaller build, with pale features, a tinymoustache, and watery blue eyes. He wore a _pince-nez_, and from thelength of his hair and a dab of crimson lake upon his shirt cuff, Iargued him an artist.
Leaving the chess-players, my eyes lighted on the stranger on the otherside. He was more interesting in every way. Indeed, I was surprised tosee a man of his stamp in the house at all. He was tall and slim, butexquisitely formed, and plainly the possessor of enormous strength. Hishead, if only from a phrenological point of view, was a magnificent one,crowned with a wealth of jet-black hair. His eyes were dark as night,and glittered like those of a snake. His complexion was of a decidedlyolive hue, though, as he sat in the shadow of the corner, it wasdifficult to tell this at first sight.
But what most fascinated me about this curious individual was theinterest he was taking in the game the other men were playing. He kepthis eyes fixed upon the board, looked anxiously from one to the other asa move trembled in the balance, smiled sardonically when his desireswere realized, and sighed almost aloud when a mistake was made.
Every moment I expected his anxiety or disappointment to find vent inwords, but he always managed to control himself. When he became excitedI noticed that his whole body quivered under its influence, and oncewhen the smaller of the players made an injudicious move a look flewinto his face that was full of such malignant intensity that I'll own Iwas influenced by it. What effect it would have had upon the innocentcause of it all, had he seen it, I should have been sorry to conjecture.
Just as my lunch made its appearance the game reached a conclusion, andthe taller of the two players, having made a remark in German, rose toleave. It was evident that the smaller man had won, and in an excess ofpride, to which I gathered his nature was not altogether a stranger, helooked round the room as if in defiance.
Doing so, his eyes met those of the man in the corner. I glanced fromone to the other, but my gaze rested longest on the face of the smallerman. So fascinated did he seem to be by the other's stare that his eyesbecame set and stony. It was just as if he were being mesmerized. Theperson he looked at rose, approached him, sat down at the table andbegan to arrange the men on the board. Then he looked up again.
"May I have the pleasure of giving you a game?" he asked in excellentEnglish, bowing slightly as he spoke, and moving a pawn with his longwhite fingers.
The little man found voice enough to murmur an appropriate reply, andthey began their game, while I turned to my lunch. But, in spite ofmyself, I found my eyes continually reverting to what was happening atthe other table. And, indeed, it was a curious sight I saw there. Thetall man had thrown himself into the business of the game, heart andsoul. He half sat, half crouched over the board, reminding me of a hawkhovering over a poultry yard.
His eyes were riveted first on the men before him and then on hisopponent--his long fingers twitched and twined over each move, andseemed as if they would never release their hold. Not once did he speak,but his attitude was more expressive than any words.
The effect on the little man, his companion, was overwhelming. He wasquite unable to do anything, but sat huddled up in his chair as ifterrified by his demoniacal companion. The result even a child mighthave foreseen. The tall man won, and the little man, only too glad tohave come out of the ordeal with a whole skin, seized his hat and, witha half-uttered apology, darted from the room.
For a moment or two his extraordinary opponent sat playing with thechessmen. Then he looked across at me and without hesitation said,accompanying his remark with a curious smile, for which I could not atall account:--"I think you will agree with me that the limitations ofthe fool are the birth gifts of the wise!"
Not knowing what reply to make to this singular assertion, I wisely heldmy tongue. This brought about a change in his demeanour; he rose fromhis seat, and came across to where I sat. Seating himself in a chairdirectly opposite me, he folded his hands in his lap, after the mannerof a demure old spinster, and, having looked at me earnestly, said withan almost indescribable sweetness of tone:--
"I think you will allow, Mr. Hatteras, that half the world is born forthe other half to prey upon!"
For a moment I was too much astonished to speak; how on earth had hebecome aware of my name? I stumbled out some sort of reply, whichevidently did not impress him very much, for he began again:--
"Our friend who has just left us will most certainly be one of thosepreyed upon. I pity him because he will not have the smallest grain ofpleasure in his life. You, Mr. Hatteras, on the other hand, will,unwittingly, be in the other camp. Circumstances will arrange that foryou. Some have, of course, no desire to prey; but necessity forces it onthem. Yourself, for instance. Some only prey when they are quite surethere will be no manner of risk. Our German friend who played theprevious game is an example. Others, again, never lose an opportunity.Candidly speaking, to which class should you imagine I belong?"
He smiled as he put the question, and, his thin lips parting, I couldjust catch the glitter of the short teeth with which his mouth wasfurnished. For the third time since I had made his acquaintance I didnot know which way to answer. However, I made a shot and said something.
"I really know nothing about you," I answered. "But from your kindnessin giving our artist friend a game, and now in allowing me the benefitof your conversation, I should say you only prey upon your fellow-menwhen dire extremity drives you to it."
"And you would be wrong. I am of the last class I mentioned. There isonly one sport of any interest to me in life, and that is theopportunity of making capital out of my fellow humans. You see, I amcandid with you, Mr. Hatteras!"
"Pray excuse me. But you know my name! As I have never, to my knowledge,set eyes on you before, would you mind telling me how you becameacquainted with it?"
"With every pleasure. But before I do so I think it only fair to tellyou that you will not believe my explanation. And yet it _should_convince you. At any rate we'll try. In your right-hand top waistcoatpocket you have three cards." Here he leant his head on his hands andshut his eyes. "One is crinkled and torn, but it has written on it, inpencil, the name of Edward Braithwaite, Macquarrie Street, Sydney. Ipresume the name is Braithwaite, but the _t_ and _e_ are almostillegible. The second is rather a high-sounding one--the Hon. SylvesterWetherell, Potts Point, Sydney, New South Wales; and the third is, Itake it, your own, Richard Hatteras. Am I right?"
I put my fingers in my pocket, and drew out what it contained--ahalf-sovereign, a shilling, a small piece of pencil, and three cards.The first, a well-worn piece of pasteboard, bore, surely enough, thename of Edward Braithwaite, and was that of the solicitor with whom Itransacted my business in Sydney; the second was given me by mysweetheart's father the day before we left Australia; and the third wascertainly my own.
Was this witchcraft or only some clever conjuring trick? I asked myselfthe question, but could give it no satisfactory answer. At any rate youmay be sure it did not lessen my respect for my singular companion.
"Ah! I am right, then!" he cried exultingly. "Isn't it strange how thelove of being right remains with us, when we think we have safelycombated every other self-conceit. Well, Mr. Hatteras, I am very pleasedto have made your acquaintance. Somehow I think we are destined to meetagain--where I cannot say. At any rate, let us hope that that meetingwill be as pleasant and successful as this has been."
But I hardly heard what he said. I was still puzzling my brains over hisextraordinary conjuring trick--for trick I am convinced it was. He hadrisen and was slowly drawing on his gloves when I spoke.
"I have been thinking over those cards," I said, "and I am considerablypuzzled. How on earth did you know they were there?"
"If I told you, you would have no more faith in my powers. So with yourpermission I will assume the virtue of modesty. Call it a conjuringtrick, if you like. Many curious things are hidden under thatcomprehensive term. But that is neither here nor there. Before I gowould you like to see one more?"
"Very much, indeed, if it's as good as the last!"
In the window stood a large glass dish, half full of water, and having adark brown fly paper floating on the surface. He brought it across tothe table at which I sat, and having drained the water into a jug nearby, left the paper sticking to the bottom.
This done, he took a tiny leather case from his pocket and a smallbottle out of that again. From this bottle he poured a few drops of somehighly pungent liquid on to the paper, with the result that it grewblack as ink and threw off a tiny vapour, which licked the edges of thebowl and curled upwards in a faint spiral column.
"There, Mr. Hatteras, this is a--well, a trick--I learned from an oldwoman in Benares. It is a better one than the last and will repay yourinterest. If you will look on that paper for a moment, and try toconcentrate your attention, you will see something that will, I think,astonish you."
Hardly believing that I should see anything at all I looked. But forsome seconds without success. My scepticism, however, soon left me. Atfirst I saw only the coarse grain of the paper and the thin vapourrising from it. Then the knowledge that I was gazing into a dishvanished. I forget my companion and the previous conjuring trick. I sawonly a picture opening out before me--that of a handsomely furnishedroom, in which was a girl sitting in an easy chair crying as if herheart were breaking. The room I had never seen before, but the girl Ishould have known among a thousand. _She was Phyllis, my sweetheart!_
I looked and looked, and as I gazed at her, I heard her call my name."Oh, Dick! Dick! come to me!" Instantly I sprang to my feet, meaning tocross the room to her. Next moment I became aware of a loud crash. Thescene vanished, my senses came back to me; and to my astonishment Ifound myself standing alongside the overturned restaurant table. Theglass dish lay on the floor, shattered into a thousand fragments. Myfriend, the conjuror, had disappeared.
Having righted the table again, I went downstairs and explained mymisfortune. When I had paid my bill I took my departure, more troubledin mind than I cared to confess. That it was only what he had called it,a conjuring trick, I felt I ought to be certain, but still it was cleverand uncanny enough to render me very uncomfortable.
In vain I tried to drive the remembrance of the scene I had witnessedfrom my brain, but it would not be dispelled. At length, to satisfymyself, I resolved that if the memory of it remained with me so vividlyin the morning I would take the bull by the horns and call at the_Métropole_ to make inquiries.
I returned to my hotel in time for dinner, but still I could not ridmyself of the feeling that some calamity was approaching. Having sent mymeal away almost untouched, I called a hansom and drove to the nearesttheatre, but the picture of Phyllis crying and calling for me in vainkept me company throughout the performance, and brought me home moremiserable at the end than I had started. All night long I dreamed of it,seeing the same picture again and again, and hearing the same despairingcry, "Oh, Dick! Dick! come to me!"
In the morning there was only one thing to be done. Accordingly, afterbreakfast I set off to make sure that nothing was the matter. On the wayI tried to reason with myself. I asked how it was that I, Dick Hatteras,a man who thought he knew the world so well, should have been soimpressed with a bit of wizardry as to be willing to risk making a foolof myself before the two last people in the world I wanted to think meone. Once I almost determined to turn back, but while the intention heldme the picture rose again before my mind's eye, and on I went moreresolved to solve the mystery.
Arriving at the hotel, a gorgeously caparisoned porter, who stood on thesteps, said in response to my inquiry:--
_"They've left, sir. Started yesterday afternoon, quite suddenly, forParis, on their way back to Australia!"_



CHAPTER III
I VISIT MY RELATIONS

For the moment I could hardly believe my ears. Gone? Why had they gone?What could have induced them to leave England so suddenly? I questionedthe hall porter on the subject, but he could tell me nothing save thatthey had departed for Paris the previous day, intending to proceedacross the Continent in order to catch the first Australian boat atNaples.
Feeling that I should only look ridiculous if I stayed questioning theman any longer, I pressed a tip into his hand and went slowly back to myown hotel to try and think it all out. But though I devoted some hoursto it, I could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion. The one vital pointremained and was not to be disputed--they were gone. But the mail thatevening brought me enlightenment in the shape of a letter, written inLondon and posted in Dover. It ran as follows:--
     "MONDAY AFTERNOON.
     "MY OWN DEAREST.--Something terrible has happened to papa!     I cannot tell you what, because I do not know myself. He went out     this morning in the best of health and spirits, and returned half an     hour ago trembling like a leaf and white as a sheet. He had only     strength enough left to reach a chair in my sitting-room before he     fainted dead away. When he came to himself again he said, 'Tell     your maid to pack at once. There is not a moment to lose. We start     for Paris this evening to catch the next boat leaving Naples for     Australia.' I said, 'But papa!' 'Not a word,' he answered. 'I have     seen somebody this morning whose presence renders it impossible for     us to remain an instant longer in England. Go and pack at once,     unless you wish my death to lie at your door.' After that I could,     of course, say nothing. I have packed and now, in half an hour, we     leave England again. If I could only see you to say good-bye; but     that, too, is impossible. I cannot tell what it all means, but that     it is very serious business that takes us away so suddenly I feel     convinced. My father seems frightened to remain in London a minute     longer than he can help. He even stands at the window as I write,     earnestly scrutinizing everybody who enters the hotel. And now, my     own----"
But what follows, the reiterations of her affection, her vows to be trueto me, etc., etc., could have no possible interest for any one savelovers.
I sat like one stunned. All enjoyment seemed suddenly to have gone outof life for me. I could only sit twirling the paper in my hand andpicturing the train flying remorselessly across France, bearing awayfrom me the girl I loved better than all the world. I went down to thePark, but the scene there had no longer any interest in my eyes. I wentlater on to a theatre, but I found no enjoyment in the piece performed.London had suddenly become distasteful to me. I felt I must get out ofit; but where could I go? Every place was alike in my present humour.Then one of the original motives of my journey rose before me, and Idetermined to act on the suggestion.
Next morning I accordingly set off for Hampshire to try, if possible, tofind my father's old home. What sort of a place it would turn out to beI had not the very remotest idea.
Leaving the train at Lyndhurst Road--for the village I was in search ofwas situated in the heart of the New Forest--I hired a ramshackleconveyance from the nearest innkeeper and started off for it. The manwho drove me had lived in the neighbourhood, so he found early occasionto inform me, all his seventy odd years, and it struck him as a humorouscircumstance that he had never in his life been even as far asSouthampton, a matter of only ten minutes by rail.
We had travelled a matter of two miles when it struck me to ask mycharioteer about the place to which we were proceeding. It was withinthe bounds of possibility, I thought, that he might once have known myfather. I determined to try him. So waiting till we had passed a load ofhay coming along the lane, I put the question to him.
To my surprise, he had no sooner heard the name than he became asexcited as it was possible for him to be.
"Hatteras!" he cried. "Be ye a Hatteras? Well, well, now, dearie me,who'd ha' thought it!"
"Do you know the name so well, then?"
"Ay! ay! I know the name well enough; who doesn't in these parts? Therewas the old Squire and Lady Margaret when first I remember. Then SquireJasper and his son, the captain, as was killed in the mutiny in foreignparts--and Master James----"
"James--that was my father's name. James Dymoke Hatteras."
"You Master James' son--you don't say! Well! well! Now to think of thattoo! Him that ran away from home after words with the Squire, and wentto foreign parts. Who'd have thought it! Sir William will be right downglad to see ye, I'll be bound."
"Sir William, and who's Sir William?"
"He's the only one left now, sir. Lives up at the House. Ah, dear! ah,dear! There's been a power o' trouble in the family these years past."
By this time the aspect of the country was changing. We had left thelane behind us, ascended a short hill, and were now descending it againthrough what looked to my eyes more like a stately private avenue than apublic road. Beautiful elms reared themselves on either hand andintermingled their branches overhead; while before us, through a gap inthe foliage, we could just distinguish the winding river, with thethatched roofs of the village, of which we had come in search, liningits banks, and the old grey tower of the church keeping watch and wardover all.
There was to my mind something indescribably peaceful and even sad aboutthat view, a mute sympathy with the Past that I could hardly accountfor, seeing that I was Colonial born and bred. For the first time sincemy arrival in England the real beauty of the place came home upon me. Ifelt as if I could have looked for ever on that quiet and peaceful spot.
When we reached the bottom of the hill, and had turned the corner, abroad, well-made stone bridge confronted us. On the other side of thiswas an old-fashioned country inn, with its signboard dangling from thehouse front, and opposite it again a dilapidated cottage lolling besidetwo iron gates. The gates were eight feet or more in height, made offinely wrought iron, and supported by big stone posts, on the top ofwhich two stone animals--griffins, I believe they are called--holdingshields in their claws, looked down on passers-by in ferocious grandeur.From behind the gates an avenue wound and disappeared into the wood.
Without consulting me, my old charioteer drove into the inn yard, and,having thrown the reins to an ostler, descended from the vehicle. Ifollowed his example, and then inquired the name of the place inside thegates. My guide, philosopher, and friend looked at me rather queerly fora second or two, and then recollecting that I was a stranger to theplace, said:--
"That be the Hall I was telling 'ee about. That's where Sir Williamlives!"
"Then that's where my father was born?"
He nodded his head, and as he did so I noticed that the ostler stoppedhis work of unharnessing the horse, and looked at me in rather asurprised fashion.
"Well, that being so," I said, taking my stick from the trap, andpreparing to stroll off, "I'm just going to investigate a bit. You bringyourself to an anchor in yonder, and don't stir till I come for youagain."
He took himself into the inn without more ado, and I crossed the roadtowards the gates. They were locked, but the little entrance by thetumble-down cottage stood open, and passing through this I started upthe drive. It was a perfect afternoon; the sunshine straggled in throughthe leafy canopy overhead and danced upon my path. To the right were thethick fastnesses of the preserves; while on my left, across the meadowsI could discern the sparkle of water on a weir. I must have proceededfor nearly a mile through the wood before I caught sight of the house.Then, what a strange experience was mine.
Leaving the shelter of the trees, I opened on to as beautiful a park asthe mind of man could imagine. A herd of deer were grazing quietly justbefore me, a woodman was eating his dinner in the shadow of an oak; butit was not upon deer or woodman that I looked, but at the house thatstared at me across the undulating sea of grass. It was a noblebuilding, of grey stone, in shape almost square, with many curiousbuttresses and angles. The drive ran up to it with a grand sweep, andupon the green that fronted it some big trees reared their statelyheads. In my time I'd heard a lot of talk about the stately homes ofEngland, but this was the first time I had ever set eyes on one. And tothink that this was my father's birthplace, the house where my ancestorshad lived for centuries! I could only stand and stare at it in sheeramazement.
You see, my father had always been a very silent man, and though he usedsometimes to tell us yarns about scrapes he'd got into as a boy, and howhis father was a very stern man, and had sent him to a public school,because his tutor found him unmanageable, we never thought that he'dbeen anything very much.
To tell the truth, I felt a bit doubtful as to what I'd better do.Somehow I was rather nervous about going up to the house and introducingmyself as a member of the family without any credentials to back myassertion up; and yet, on the other hand, I did not want to go away andhave it always rankling in my mind that I'd seen the old place and beenafraid to go inside. My mind once made up, however, off I went, crossedthe park, and made towards the front door. On nearer approach, Idiscovered that everything showed the same neglect I had noticed at thelodge. The drive was overgrown with weeds; no carriage seemed to havepassed along it for ages. Shutters enclosed many of the windows, andwhere they did not, not one but several of the panes were broken.Entering the great stone porch, in which it would have been possible toseat a score of people, I pulled the antique door-bell, and waited,while the peal re-echoed down the corridors, for the curtain to go up onthe next scene.
Presently I heard footsteps approaching. A key turned in the lock, andthe great door swung open. An old man, whose years could hardly havetotalled less than seventy, stood before me, dressed in a suit of solemnblack, almost green with age. He inquired my business in a wheezywhisper. I asked if Sir William Hatteras were at home. Informing me thathe would find out, he left me to ruminate on the queerness of myposition. In five minutes or so he returned, and signed to me to follow.
The hall was in keeping with the outside of the building, lofty andimposing. The floor was of oak, almost black with age, the walls werebeautifully wainscoted and carved, and here and there tall armouredfigures looked down upon me in disdainful silence. But the crowningglory of all was the magnificent staircase that ran up from the centre.It was wide enough and strong enough to have taken a coach and four, thepillars that supported it were exquisitely carved, as were the banistersand rails. Half-way up was a sort of landing, from which again thestairs branched off to right and left.
Above this landing-place, and throwing a stream of coloured light downinto the hall, was a magnificent stained-glass window, and on a lozengein the centre of it the arms that had so much puzzled me on the gateway.A nobler hall no one could wish to possess, but brooding over it was thesame air of poverty and neglect I had noticed all about the place. Bythe time I had taken in these things, my guide had reached a door at thefarther end. He bade me enter, and I did so, to find a tall, elderly manof stern aspect awaiting my coming.
He, like his servant, was dressed entirely in black, with the exceptionof a white tie, which gave his figure a semi-clerical appearance. Hisface was long and somewhat pinched, his chin and upper lip were shaven,and his snow-white, close-cropped whiskers ran in two straight linesfrom his jaw up to a level with his piercing, hawk-like eyes. He wouldprobably have been about seventy-five years of age, but he did not carryit well. In a low, monotonous voice he bade me welcome, and pointed to achair, himself remaining standing.
"My servant tells me you say your name is Hatteras?" he began.
"That is so," I replied. "My father was James Dymoke Hatteras."
He looked at me very sternly for almost a minute, not for a secondbetraying the slightest sign of surprise. Then putting his handstogether, finger tip to finger tip, as I discovered later was hisinvariable habit while flunking, he said solemnly:----
"James was my younger brother. He misconducted himself gravely inEngland and was sent abroad. After a brief career of spendthriftextravagance in Australia, we never heard of him again. You may be hisson, but then, on the other hand, of course, you may not. I have nomeans of judging."
"I give you my word," I answered, a little nettled by his speech and theinsinuation contained in it; "but if you want further proof, I've got aLatin book in my portmanteau with my father's name upon the fly-leaf,and an inscription in his own writing setting forth that it was given byhim to me."
"A Catullus?"
"Exactly! a Catullus."
"Then I'll have to trouble you to return it to me at your earliestconvenience. The book is my property: I paid eighteenpence for it on the3rd of July, 1833, in the shop of John Burns, Fleet Street, London. Mybrother took it from me a week later, and I have not been able to affordmyself another copy since."
"You admit then that the book is evidence of my father's identity?"
"I admit nothing. What do you want with me? What do you come here for?You must see for yourself that I am too poor to be of any service toyou, and I have long since lost any public interest I may once havepossessed."
"I want neither one nor the other. I am home from Australia on a trip,and I have a sufficient competence to render me independent of any one."
"Ah! That puts a different complexion on the matter. You say you hailfrom Australia? And what may you have been doing there?"
"Gold-mining--pearling--trading!"
He came a step closer, and as he did so I noticed that his face hadassumed a look of indescribable cunning, that was evidently intended tobe of an ingratiating nature. He spoke in little jerks, pressing hisfingers together between each sentence.
"Gold-mining! Ah! And pearling! Well, well! And you have been fortunatein your ventures?"
"Very!" I replied, having by this time determined on my line of action."I daresay my cheque for ten thousand pounds would not be dishonoured."
"Ten thousand pounds! Ten thousand pounds! Dear me, dear me!"
He shuffled up and down the dingy room, all the time looking at me outof the corners of his eyes, as if to make sure that I was telling himthe truth.
"Come, come, uncle," I said, resolving to bring him to his bearingswithout further waste of time. "This is not a very genial welcome!"
"Well, well, you mustn't expect too much, my boy! You see for yourselfthe position I'm in. The old place is shut up, going to rack and ruin.Poverty is staring me in the face; I am cheated by everybody. Robbedright and left, not knowing which way to turn. But I'll not be put upon.They may call me what they please, but they can't get blood out of astone. Can they! Answer me that, now!"
This speech showed me everything as plain as a pikestaff. I mean, ofcourse, the reason of the deserted and neglected house, and hisextraordinary reception of myself. I rose to my feet.
"Well, uncle--for my uncle you certainly are, whatever you may say tothe contrary--I must be going. I'm sorry to find you like this, and fromwhat you tell me I couldn't think of worrying you with my society! Iwant to see the old church and have a talk with the parson, and then Ishall go off never to trouble you again."
He immediately became almost fulsome in his effort to detain me. "No,no! You mustn't go like that. It's not hospitable. Besides, you mustn'ttalk with parson. He's a bad lot, is parson--a hard man with a crueltongue. Says terrible things about me, does parson. But I'll be evenwith him yet. Don't speak to him, laddie, for the honour of the family.Now ye'll stay and take lunch with me?--potluck, of course--I'm too poorto give ye much of a meal; and in the meantime I'll show ye the houseand estate."
This was just what I wanted, though I did not look forward to theprospect of lunch in his company.
With trembling hands he took down an old-fashioned hat from a peg andturned towards the door. When we had passed through it he carefullylocked it and dropped the key into his breeches' pocket. Then he led theway upstairs by the beautiful oak staircase I had so much admired onentering the house.
When we reached the first landing, which was of noble proportions andmust have contained upon its walls nearly a hundred family portraits allcoated with the dust of years, he approached a door and threw it open. Afeeble light straggled in through the closed shutters, and revealed analmost empty room. In the centre stood a large canopied bed, of antiquedesign. The walls were wainscoted, and the massive chimney-piece wascarved with heraldic designs. I inquired what room this might be.
"This is where all our family were born," he answered. "'Twas here yourfather first saw the light of day."
I looked at it with a new interest. It seemed hard to believe that thiswas the birthplace of my own father, the man whom I remembered so wellin a place and life so widely different. My companion noticed the lookupon my face, and, I suppose, felt constrained to say something. "Ah!James!" he said sorrowfully, "ye were always a giddy, roving lad. Iremember ye well." (He passed his hand across his eyes, to brush away atear, I thought, but his next speech disabused me of any such notion.)"I remember that but a day or two before ye went ye blooded my nose inthe orchard, and the very morning ye decamped ye borrowed half a crownof me, and never paid it back."
A sudden something prompted me to put my hand in my pocket. I took outhalf a crown, and handed it to him without a word. He took it, looked atit longingly, put it in his pocket, took it out again, ruminated amoment, and then reluctantly handed it back to me.
"Nay, nay! my laddie, keep your money, keep your money. Ye can send methe Catullus." Then to himself, unconscious that he was speaking histhoughts aloud: "It was a good edition, and I have no doubt would bringfive shillings any day."
From one room we passed into another, and yet another. They were allalike--shut up, dust-ridden, and forsaken. And yet with it all what anoble place it was--one which any man might be proud to call his own.And to think that it was all going to rack and ruin because of themiserly nature of its owner. In the course of our ramble I discoveredthat he kept but two servants, the old man who had admitted me to hispresence, and his wife, who, as that peculiar phrase has it, cooked anddid for him. I discovered later that he had not paid either of themwages for some years past, and that they only stayed on with him becausethey were too poor and proud to seek shelter elsewhere.
When we had inspected the house we left it by a side door, and crossed acourtyard to the stables. There the desolation was, perhaps, even moremarked than in the house. The great clock on the tower above the mainbuilding had stopped at a quarter to ten on some long-forgotten day, anda spider now ran his web from hand to hand. At our feet, between thestones, grass grew luxuriantly, thick moss covered the coping of thewell, the doors were almost off their hinges, and rats scuttled throughthe empty loose boxes at our approach. So large was the place, thatthirty horses might have found a lodging comfortably, and as far as Icould gather, there was room for half as many vehicles in thecoach-houses that stood on either side. The intense quiet was onlybroken by the cawing of the rooks in the giant elms overhead, thesqueaking of the rats, and the low grumbling of my uncle's voice as hepointed out the ruin that was creeping over everything.
Before we had finished our inspection it was lunch time, and we returnedto the house. The meal was served in the same room in which I had mademy relative's acquaintance an hour before. It consisted, I discovered,of two meagre mutton chops and some homemade bread and cheese, plain andsubstantial fare enough in its way, but hardly the sort one would expectfrom the owner of such a house. For a beverage, water was placed beforeus, but I could see that my host was deliberating as to whether heshould stretch his generosity a point or two further.
Presently he rose, and with a muttered apology left the room, to returnfive minutes later carrying a small bottle carefully in his hand. This,with much deliberation and sighing, he opened. It proved to be claret,and he poured out a glassful for me. As I was not prepared for so muchliberality, I thought something must be behind it, and in this I was notmistaken.
"Nephew," said he after a while, "was it ten thousand pounds youmentioned as your fortune?"
I nodded. He looked at me slyly and cleared his throat to gain time forreflection. Then seeing that I had emptied my glass, he refilled it withanother scarce concealed sigh, and sat back in his chair.
"And I understand you to say you are quite alone in the world, my boy?"
"Quite! Until I met you this morning I was unaware that I had a singlerelative on earth. Have I any more connections?"
"Not a soul--only Gwendoline."
"Gwendoline! and who may Gwendoline be?"
"My daughter--your cousin. My only child! Would you like to see her?"
"I had no idea you had a daughter. Of course I should like to see her!"
He left the table and rang the bell. The ancient man-servant answeredthe summons.
"Tell you wife to bring Miss Gwendoline to us."
"Miss Gwendoline here, sir? You do not mean it sure-lie, sir?"
"Numbskull! numbskull! numbskull!" cried the old fellow in an ecstasy offury that seemed to spring up as suddenly as a squall does between theislands, "bring her or I'll be the death of you."
Without further remonstrance the old man left the room, and I demandedan explanation.
"Good servant, but an impudent rascal, sir!" he said. "Of course youmust see my daughter, my beautiful daughter, Gwendoline. He's afraidyou'll frighten her, I suppose! Ha! ha! Frighten my bashful, pretty one.Ha! ha!"
Anything so supremely devilish as the dried-up mirth of this old fellowit would be difficult to imagine. His very laugh seemed as if it had tocrack in his throat before it could pass his lips. What would hisdaughter be like, living in such a house, with such companions? While Iwas wondering, I heard footsteps in the corridor, and then an old womanentered and curtsied respectfully. My host rose and went over to thefireplace, where he stood with his hands behind his back and the samedevilish grin upon his face.
"Well, where is my daughter?"
"Sir, do you really mean it?"
"Of course I mean it. Where is she?"
In answer the old lady went to the door and called to some one in thehall.
"Come in, dearie. It's all right. Come in, do'ee now, that's a littledear."
But the girl made no sign of entering, and at last the old woman had togo out and draw her in. And then--but I hardly know how to write it. Howshall I give you a proper description of the--_thing_ that entered.
She--if _she_ it could be called--was about three feet high, dressed ina shapeless print costume. Her hair stood and hung in a tangled massupon her head, her eyes were too large for her face, and to complete thehorrible effect, a great patch of beard grew on one cheek, and descendedalmost to a level with her chin. Her features were all awry, and now andagain she uttered little moans that were more like those of a wild beastthan of a human being. In spite of the old woman's endeavours to makeher do so, she would not venture from her side, but stood slobbering andmoaning in the half dark of the doorway.
It was a ghastly sight, one that nearly turned me sick with loathing.But the worst part of it all was the inhuman merriment of her father.
"There, there!" he cried; "had ever man such a lovely daughter? Isn'tshe a beauty? Isn't she fit to be a prince's bride? Isn't she fit to bethe heiress of all this place? Won't the young dukes be asking her handin marriage? Oh, you beauty! You--but there, take her away--take heraway, I say, before I do her mischief."
The words had no sooner left his mouth than the old woman seized hercharge and bundled her out of the room, moaning as before. I can tellyou there was at least one person in that apartment who was heartilyglad to be rid of her.
When the door had closed upon them my host came back to his seat, andwith another sigh refilled my glass. I wondered what was coming next. Itwas not long, however, before I found out.
"Now you know everything," he said. "You have seen my home, you haveseen my poverty, and you have seen my daughter. What do you think of itall?"
"I don't know what to think."
"Well, then, I'll tell you. That child wants doctors; that child wantsproper attendance. She can get neither here. I am too poor to help herin any way. You're rich by your own telling. I have to-day taken youinto the bosom of my family, recognized you without doubting yourassertions. Will you help me? Will you give me one thousand poundstowards settling that child in life? With that amount it could bemanaged."
"Will I what?" I cried in utter amazement--dumbfounded by his impudence.
"Will you settle one thousand pounds upon her, to keep her out of hergrave?"
"Not one penny!" I cried: "and, what's more, you miserable, miserly oldwretch, I'll give you a bit of my mind."
And thereupon I did! Such a talking to as I suppose the old fellow hadnever had in his life before, and one he'd not be likely to forget in ahurry. He sat all the time, white with fury, his eyes blazing, and hisfingers quivering with impotent rage. When I had done he ordered me outof his house. I took him at his word, seized my hat, and strode acrossthe hall through the front door, and out into the open air.
But I was not to leave the home of my ancestors without a parting shot.As I closed the front door behind me I heard a window go up, and onlooking round there was the old fellow shaking his fist at me.
"Leave my house--leave my park!" he cried in a shrill falsetto, "or I'llsend for the constable to turn you off. Bah! You came to steal. You'reno nephew of mine; I disown you! You're a common cheat--a swindler--animpostor! Go!"
I took him at his word, and went. Leaving the park, I walked straightacross to the rectory, and inquired if I might see the clergyman. To himI told my tale, and, among other things, asked if anything could be donefor the child--my cousin. He only shook his head.
"I fear it is hopeless, Mr. Hatteras," the clergyman said. "The oldgentleman is a terrible character, and as he owns half the village, andevery acre of the land hereabouts, we all live in fear and trembling ofhim. We have no shadow of a claim upon the child, and unless we canprove that he actually ill-treats it, I'm sorry to say I think there isnothing to be done."
So ended my first meeting with my father's family.
From the rectory I returned to my inn. What should I do now? London wasworse than a desert to me now that my sweetheart was gone from it, andevery other place seemed as bad. Then an advertisement on the wall ofthe bar parlour caught my eye:
     "FOR SALE OR HIRE,     THE YACHT, _ENCHANTRESS_.     Ten Tons.     Apply, SCREW & MATCHEM,     Bournemouth."
It was just the very thing. I was pining for a breath of sea air again.It was perfect weather for a cruise. I would go to Bournemouth, inspectthe yacht at once, and, if she suited me, take her for a month or so. Mymind once made up, I hunted up my Jehu and set off for the train, neverdreaming that by so doing I was taking the second step in that importantchain of events that was to affect all the future of my life.



CHAPTER IV
I SAVE AN IMPORTANT LIFE

I travelled to Bournemouth by a fast train, and immediately on arrivalmade my way to the office of Messrs. Screw & Matchem, with a view toinstituting inquiries regarding the yacht they had advertised for hire.It was with the senior partner I transacted my business; a shrewd butpleasant gentleman.
Upon my making known my business to him, he brought me a photograph ofthe craft in question, and certainly a nice handy boat she looked. Shehad been built, he went on to inform me, for a young nobleman, who hadmade two very considerable excursions in her before he had beencompelled to fly the country, and was only three years old. I learnedalso that she was lying in Poole harbour, but he was good enough to saythat if I wished to see her she should be brought round to Bournemouththe following morning, when I could inspect her at my leisure. As thisarrangement was one that exactly suited me, I closed with it there andthen, and thanking Mr. Matchem for his courtesy, betook myself to myhotel. Having dined, I spent the evening upon the pier--the first of itskind I had ever seen--listened to the band and diverted myself withthoughts of her to whom I had plighted my troth, and whose unexpecteddeparture from England had been such a sudden and bitter disappointmentto me.
Next morning, faithful to promise, the _Enchantress_ sailed into the bayand came to an anchor within a biscuit throw of the pier. Chartering adinghy, I pulled myself off to her, and stepped aboard. An old man and aboy were engaged washing down, and to them I introduced myself andbusiness. Then for half an hour I devoted myself to overhauling herthoroughly. She was a nice enough little craft, well set up, and fromher run looked as if she might possess a fair turn of speed; the gearwas in excellent order, and this was accounted for when the old man toldme she had been repaired and thoroughly overhauled that selfsame year.
Having satisfied myself on a few other minor points, I pulled ashore andagain went up through the gardens to the agents' office. Mr. Matchem wasdelighted to hear that I liked the yacht well enough to think of hiringher at their own price (a rather excessive one, I must admit), and, Idon't doubt, would have supplied me with a villa in Bournemouth, and ayachting box in the Isle of Wight, also on their own terms, had I feltinclined to furnish them with the necessary order. But fortunately I wasable to withstand their temptations, and having given them my cheque forthe requisite amount, went off to make arrangements, and to engage acrew.
Before nightfall I had secured the services of a handy lad in place ofthe old man who had brought the boat round from Poole, and was in aposition to put to sea. Accordingly next morning I weighed anchor for atrip round the Isle of Wight. Before we had brought the Needles abeam Ihad convinced myself that the boat was an excellent sailer, and when thefirst day's cruise was over I had no reason to repent having hired her.
Not having anything to hurry me, and only a small boy and my ownthoughts to keep me company, I took my time; remained two days in theSolent, sailed round the island, put in a day at Ventnor, and so back toBournemouth. Then, after a day ashore, I picked up a nice breeze and randown to Torquay to spend another week, sailing slowly back along thecoast, touching at various ports, and returning eventually to the placeI had first hailed from.
In relating these trifling incidents it is not my wish to bore myreaders, but to work up gradually to that strange meeting to which theywere the prelude. Now that I can look back in cold blood upon thecircumstances that brought it about, and reflect how narrowly I escapedmissing the one event which was destined to change my whole life, I canhardly realize that I attached such small importance to it at the time.Somehow I have always been a firm believer in Fate, and indeed it wouldbe strange, all things considered, if I were not. For when a man haspassed through so many extraordinary adventures as I have, and not onlycome out of them unharmed, but happier and a great deal more fortunatethan he has really any right to be, he may claim the privilege, I think,of saying he knows something about his subject.
And, mind you, I date it all back to that visit to the old home, and tomy uncle's strange reception of me, for had I not gone down into thecountry I should never have quarrelled with him, and if I had notquarrelled with him I should not have gone back to the inn in such adudgeon, and in that case I should probably have left the place withouta visit to the bar, never have seen the advertisement, visitedBournemouth, hired the yacht or--but there, I must stop. You must workout the rest for yourself when you have heard my story.
The morning after my third return to Bournemouth I was up by daybreak,and had my breakfast, and was ready to set off on a cruise across thebay, before the sun was a hand's breadth above the horizon. It was asperfect a morning as any man could wish to see. A faint breeze justblurred the surface of the water, tiny waves danced in the sunshine, andmy barkie nodded to them as if she were anxious to be off. The townashore lay very quiet and peaceful, and so still was the air that thecries of a few white gulls could be heard quite distinctly, though theywere half a mile or more away. Having hove anchor, we tacked slowlyacross the bay, passed the pier-head, and steered for Old Harry Rock andSwanage Bay. My crew was for'ard, and I had possession of the tiller.
As we went about between Canford Cliffs and Alum Chine, something movingin the water ahead of me attracted my attention. We were too far off tomake out exactly what it might be, and it was not until five minuteslater, when we were close abreast of it, that I discovered it to be abather. The foolish fellow had ventured farther out than was prudent,had struck a strong current, and was now being washed swiftly out tosea. But for the splashing he made to show his whereabouts, I should inall probability not have seen him, and in that case his fate would havebeen sealed. As it was, when we came up with him he was quite exhausted.
Heaving my craft to, I leapt into the dinghy, and pulled towards him,but before I could reach the spot he had sunk. At first I thought he wasgone for good and all, but in a few seconds he rose again. Then,grabbing him by the hair, I passed an arm under each of his, and draggedhim unconscious into the boat. In less than three minutes we werealongside the yacht again, and with my crew's assistance I got himaboard. Fortunately a day or two before I had had the forethought topurchase some brandy for use in case of need, and my Thursday Islandexperiences having taught me exactly what was best to be done under suchcircumstances, it was not long before I had brought him back toconsciousness.
In appearance he was a handsome young fellow, well set up, and possiblynineteen or twenty years of age. When I had given him a stiff nobbler ofbrandy to stop the chattering of his teeth, I asked him how he came tobe so far from shore.
"I am considered a very good swimmer," he replied, "and often come outas far as this, but to-day I think I must have got into a strong outwardcurrent, and certainly but for your providential assistance I shouldnever have reached home alive."
"You have had a very narrow escape," I answered, "but thank goodnessyou're none the worse for it. Now, what's the best thing to be done?Turn back, I suppose, and set you ashore."
"But what a lot of trouble I'm putting you to."
"Nonsense! I've nothing to do, and I count myself very fortunate inhaving been able to render you this small assistance. The breeze isfreshening, and it won't take us any time to get back. Where do youlive?"
"To the left there! That house standing back upon the cliff. I don'tknow how to express my gratitude."
"Just keep that till I ask you for it; and now, as we've got a twentyminutes' sail before us, the best thing for you to do would be to slipinto a spare suit of my things. They'll keep you warm, and you canreturn them to my hotel when you get ashore."
I sang out to the boy to come aft and take the tiller, while I escortedmy guest below into the little box of a cabin, and gave him a rig out.Considering I am six feet two, and he was only five feet eight, thethings were a trifle large for him; but when he was dressed I couldn'thelp thinking what a handsome, well-built, aristocratic-looking youngfellow he was. The work of fitting him out accomplished, we returned tothe deck. The breeze was freshening, and the little hooker was ploughingher way through it, nose down, as if she knew that under thecircumstances her best was expected of her.
"Are you a stranger in Bournemouth?" my companion asked, as I took thetiller again.
"Almost," I answered. "I've only been in England three weeks. I'm homefrom Australia."
"Australia! Really! Oh, I should so much like to go out there."
His voice was very soft and low, more like a girl's than a boy's, and Inoticed that he had none of the mannerisms of a man--at least, not ofone who has seen much of the world.
"Yes, Australia's as good a place as any other for the man who goes outthere to work," I said. "But somehow you don't look to me like a chapthat is used to what is called roughing it. Pardon my bluntness."
"Well, you see, I've never had much chance. My father is considered bymany a very peculiar man. He has strange ideas about me, and so you seeI've never been allowed to mix with other people. But I'm stronger thanyou'd think, and I shall be twenty in October next."
"If you don't mind telling me, what is your name?"
"I suppose there can be no harm in letting you know it. I was told ifever I met any one and they asked me, not to tell them. But since yousaved my life it would be ungrateful not to let you know. I am theMarquis of Beckenham."
"Is that so? Then your father is the Duke of Glenbarth?"
"Yes. Do you know him?"
"Never set eyes on him in my life, but I heard him spoken of the otherday."
I did not add that it was Mr. Matchem who, during my conversation withhim, had referred to his Grace, nor did I think it well to say that hehad designated him the "Mad Duke." And so the boy I had saved fromdrowning was the young Marquis of Beckenham. Well, I was moving in goodsociety with a vengeance. This boy was the first nobleman I had everclapped eyes on, though I knew the Count de Panuroff well enough inThursday Island. But then foreign Counts, and shady ones at that, oughtnot to reckon, perhaps.
"But you don't mean to tell me," I said at length, "that you've got nofriends? Don't you ever see any one at all?"
"No, I am not allowed to. My father thinks it better not. And as he doesnot wish it, of course I have nothing left but to obey. I must own,however, I should like to see the world--to go along voyage toAustralia, for instance."
"But how do you put in your time? You must have a very dull life of it."
"Oh, no! You see, I have never known anything else, and then I havealways the future to look forward to. As it is now, I bathe everymorning, I have my yacht, I ride about the park, I have my studies, andI have a tutor who tells me wonderful stories of the world."
"Oh, your tutor has been about, has he?"
"Dear me, yes! He was a missionary in the South Sea Islands, and hasseen some very stirring adventures."
"A missionary in the South Seas, eh? Perhaps I know him."
"Were you ever in those seas?"
"Why, I've spent almost all my life there."
"Were you a missionary?"
"You bet not. The missionaries and my friends don't cotton to oneanother."
"But they are such good men!"
"That may be. Still, as I say, we don't somehow cotton. I'd like to setmy eyes upon your tutor."
"Well, you will. I think I see him on the beach now. I expect he hasbeen wondering what has become of me. I've never been out so longbefore."
"Well, you're close home now, and as safe as eggs in a basket."
Another minute brought us into as shallow water as I cared to go.Accordingly, heaving to, I brought the dinghy alongside, and we got intoher. Then casting off, I pulled my lord ashore. A small, clean-shaven,parsonish-looking man, with the regulation white choker, stood by thewater waiting for us. As I beached the boat he came forward and said:
"My lord, we have been very anxious about you. We feared you had metwith an accident."
"I have been very nearly drowned, Mr. Baxter. Had it not been for thisgentleman's prompt assistance I should never have reached home again."
"You should really be more careful, my lord. I have warned you before.Your father has been nearly beside himself with anxiety about you!"
"Eh?" said I to myself. "Somehow this does not sound quite right.Anyhow, Mr. Baxter, I've seen your figure-head somewhere before--but youwere not a missionary then, I'll take my affidavit."
Turning to me, my young lord held out his hand.
"You have never told me your name," he said almost reproachfully.
"Dick Hatteras," I answered, "and very much at your service."
"Mr. Hatteras, I shall never forget what you have done for me. That I ammost grateful to you I hope you will believe. I know that I owe you mylife."
Here the tutor's voice chipped in again, as I thought, ratherimpatiently. "Come, come, my lord. This delay will not do. Your fatherwill be growing still more nervous about you. We must be getting home!"
Then they went off up the cliff path together, and I returned to myboat.
"Mr. Baxter," I said to myself again as I pulled off to the yacht, "Iwant to know where I've seen your face before. I've taken a suddendislike to you. I don't trust you; and if your employer's the man theysay he is, well, he won't either."
Then, having brought the dinghy alongside, I made the painter fast,clambered aboard, and we stood out of the bay once more.



CHAPTER V
MYSTERY

The following morning I was sitting in my room at the hotel idlyscanning the _Standard_, and wondering in what way I should employmyself until the time arrived for me to board the yacht, when I heard acarriage roll up to the door. On looking out I discovered a gorgeouslandau, drawn by a pair of fine thoroughbreds, and resplendent with muchgilded and crested harness, standing before the steps. A footman hadalready opened the door, and I was at the window just in time to see atall, soldierly man alight from it. To my astonishment, two minuteslater a waiter entered my room and announced "His Grace the Duke ofGlenbarth." It was the owner of the carriage and the father of my youngfriend, if by such a title I might designate the Marquis of Beckenham.
"Mr. Hatteras, I presume?" said he.
"Yes, that is my name. I am honoured by your visit. Won't you sit down?"
"Thank you."
He paused for a moment, and then continued:
"Mr. Hatteras, I have to offer you an apology. I should have called uponyou yesterday to express the gratitude I feel to you for having savedthe life of my son, but I was unavoidably prevented."
"I beg you will not mention it," I said. "His lordship thanked mesufficiently himself. And after all, when you look at it, it was notvery much to do. I would, however, venture one little suggestion. Is itwise to let him swim so far unaccompanied by a boat? The same thingmight happen to him on another occasion, and no one be near enough torender him any assistance."
"He will not attempt so much again. He has learned a lesson from thisexperience. And now, Mr. Hatteras, I trust you will forgive what I amabout to say. My son has told me that you have just arrived in Englandfrom Australia. Is there any way I can be of service to you? If thereis, and you will acquaint me with it, you will be conferring a greatfavour upon me."
"I thank your Grace," I replied--I hope with some little touch ofdignity--"it is very kind of you, but I could not think of such a thing.But, stay, there is one service, perhaps you _could_ do me."
"I am delighted to hear it, sir. And what may it be?"
"Your son's tutor, Mr. Baxter! His face is strangely familiar to me. Ihave seen him somewhere before, but I cannot recall where. Could youtell me anything of his history?"
"Very little, I fear, save that he seems a worthy and painstaking man,an excellent scholar, and very capable in his management of young men. Ireceived excellent references with him, but of his past history I knowvery little. I believe, however, that he was a missionary in the SouthSeas for some time, and that he was afterwards for many years in India.I'm sorry I cannot tell you more about him since you are interested inhim."
"I've met him somewhere, I'm certain. His face haunts me. But to returnto your son--I hope he is none the worse for his adventure?"
"Not at all, thank you. Owing to the system I have adopted in hiseducation, the lad is seldom ailing."
"Pardon my introducing the subject. But do you think it is quite wise tokeep a youth so ignorant of the world? I am perhaps rather presumptuous,but I cannot help feeling that such a fine young fellow would be all thebetter for a few companions."
"You hit me on rather a tender spot, Mr. Hatteras. But, as you have beenfrank with me, I will be frank with you. I am one of those strangebeings who govern their lives by theories. I was brought up by myfather, I must tell you, in a fashion totally different from that I amemploying with my son. I feel now that I was allowed a dangerous amountof license. And what was the result? I mixed with every one, waspampered and flattered far beyond what was good for me, derived a falsenotion of my own importance, and when I came to man's estate was, to allintents and purposes, quite unprepared and unfitted to undertake theduties and responsibilities of my position.
"Fortunately I had the wit to see where the fault lay, and there andthen I resolved that if ever I were blessed with a son, I would conducthis education on far different lines. My boy has not met a dozenstrangers in his life. His education has been my tenderest care. Hisposition, his duties towards his fellow-men, the responsibilities of hisrank, have always been kept rigorously before him. He has been broughtup to understand that to be a Duke is not to be a titled nonentity or apampered _roué_, but to be one whom Providence has blessed with anopportunity of benefiting and watching over the welfare of those lessfortunate than himself in the world's good gifts.
"He has no exaggerated idea of his own importance; a humbler lad, I feeljustified in saying, you would nowhere find. He has been educatedthoroughly, and he has all the best traditions of his race keptcontinually before his eyes. But you must not imagine, Mr. Hatteras,that because he has not mixed with the world he is ignorant of itstemptations. He may not have come into personal contact with them, buthe has been warned against their insidious influences, and I shall trustto his personal pride and good instincts to help him to withstand themwhen he has to encounter them himself. Now, what do you think of my planfor making a nobleman?"
"A very good one, with such a youth as your son, I should think, yourGrace; but I would like to make one more suggestion, if you would allowme?"
"And that is?"
"That you should let him travel before he settles down. Choose some fitperson to accompany him. Let him have introductions to good peopleabroad, and let him use them; then he will derive different impressionsfrom different countries, view men and women from different standpoints,and enter gradually into the great world and station which he is someday to adorn."
"I had thought of that myself, and his tutor has lately spoken to me agood deal upon the subject. I must own it is an idea that commendsitself strongly to me. I will think it over. And now, sir, I must wishyou good-day. You will not let me thank you, as I should have wished,for the service you have rendered my house, but, believe me, I am nonethe less grateful. By the way, your name is not a common one. May I askif you have any relatives in this county?"
"Only one at present, I fancy--my father's brother, Sir WilliamHatteras, of Murdlestone, in the New Forest."
"Ah! I never met him. I knew his brother James very well in my youngerdays. But he got into sad trouble, poor fellow, and was obliged to flythe country."
"You are speaking of my father. You knew him?"
"Knew him? indeed, I did. And a better fellow never stepped; but, likemost of us in those days, too wild--much too wild! And so you areJames's son? Well, well! This is indeed a strange coincidence. But, dearme, I am forgetting; I must beg your pardon for speaking so candidly ofyour father."
"No offence, I'm sure."
"And pray tell me where my old friend is now?"
"Dead, your Grace! He was drowned at sea."
The worthy old gentleman seemed really distressed at this news. He shookhis head, and I heard him murmur: "Poor Jim! Poor Jim!"
Then, turning to me again, he took my hand.
"This makes our bond a doubly strong one. You must let me see more ofyou! How long do you propose remaining in England?"
"Not very much longer, I fear. I am already beginning to hunger for theSouth again."
"Well, you must not go before you have paid us a visit. Remember weshall always be pleased to see you. You know our house, I think, on thecliff. Good-day, sir, good-day."
So saying, the old gentleman accompanied me downstairs to his carriage,and, shaking me warmly by the hand, departed. Again I had cause toponder on the strangeness of the fate that had led me toHampshire--first to the village where my father was born, and then toBournemouth, where by saving this young man's life I had made a firmfriend of a man who again had known my father. By such smallcoincidences are the currents of our lives diverted.
That same afternoon, while tacking slowly down the bay, I met theMarquis. He was pulling himself in a small skiff, and when he saw me hemade haste to come alongside and hitch on. At first I wondered whetherit would not be against his father's wishes that he should enter intoconversation with such a worldly person as myself. But he evidently sawwhat was passing in my mind, and banished all doubts by saying:
"I have been on the look-out for you, Mr. Hatteras. My father has givenme permission to cultivate your acquaintance, if you will allow me."
"I shall be very pleased," I answered. "Won't you come aboard and have achat? I'm not going out of the bay this afternoon."
He clambered over the side and seated himself in the well, clear of theboom, as nice-looking and pleasant a young fellow as any man could wishto set eyes on.
"You can't imagine how I've been thinking over all you told me the otherday," he began when we were fairly on our way. "I want you to tell memore about Australia and the life you lead out there, if you will."
"I'll tell you all I can with pleasure," I answered. "But you ought togo and see the places and things for yourself. That's better than anytelling. I wish I could take you up and carry you off with me now; awaydown to where you can make out the green islands peeping out of thewater to port and starboard, like bits of the Garden of Eden gone astrayand floated out to sea. I'd like you to smell the breezes that come offfrom them towards evening, to hear the 'trades' whistling overhead, andthe thunder of the surf upon the reef. Or at another time to get insidethat selfsame reef and look down through the still, transparent water,at the rainbow-coloured fish dashing among the coral boulders, in andout of the most beautiful fairy grottos the brain of man can conceive."
"Oh, it must be lovely! And to think that I may live my life and neversee these wonders. Please go on; what else can you tell me?"
"What more do you want to hear? There is the pick of every sort of lifefor you out there. Would you know what real excitement is? Then I shalltake you to a new gold rush. To begin with, you must imagine yourselfsetting off for the field, with your trusty mate marching step by stepbeside you, pick and shovel on your shoulders, and both resolved to makeyour fortunes in the twinkling of an eye. When you get there, there'sthe digger crowd, composed of every nationality. There's the warden andhis staff, the police officers, the shanty keepers, the blacks, anddogs.
"There's the tented valley stretching away to right and left of you,with the constant roar of sluice boxes and cradles, the creak ofwindlasses, and the perpetual noise of human voices. There's theexcitement of pegging out your claim and sinking your first shaft,wondering all the time whether it will turn up trumps or nothing.There's the honest, manly labour from dawn to dusk. And then, whendaylight fails, and the lamps begin to sparkle over the field, songsdrift up the hillside from the drinking shanties in the valley, and youand your mate weigh up your day's returns, and, having done so, turninto your blankets to dream of the monster nugget you intend to findupon the morrow. Isn't that real life for you?"
He did not answer, but there was a sparkle in his eyes which told me Iwas understood.
"Then if you want other sorts of enterprise, there is Thursday Island,where I hail from, with its extraordinary people. Let us supposeourselves wandering down the Front at nightfall, past the Kanakabilliard saloons and the Chinese stores, into, say, the _Hotel of AllNations_. Who is that handsome, dark, mysterious fellow, smoking acigarette and idly flirting with the pretty bar girl? _You_ don't knowhim, but I do! There's indeed a history for you. You didn't notice,perhaps, that rakish schooner that came to anchor in the bay early inthe forenoon. What lines she had! Well, that was his craft. To-morrowshe'll be gone, it is whispered, to try for pearl in prohibited Dutchwaters. Can't you imagine her slinking round the islands, watching forthe patrolling gunboat, and ready, directly she has passed, to slip intothe bay, skim it of its shell, and put to sea again. Sometimes they'rechased."
"What then?"
"Well, a clean pair of heels or trouble with the authorities, andpossibly a year in a Dutch prison before you're brought to trial! Orwould you do a pearling trip in less exciting but more honest fashion?Would you ship aboard a lugger with five good companions, and goa-cruising down the New Guinea coast, working hard all day long, andlying out on deck at night, smoking and listening to the lip-lap of thewater against the counter, or spinning yarns of all the world?"
"What else?"
"Why, what more do you want? Do you hanker after a cruise aboard astinking _bêche-de-mer_ boat inside the Barrier Reef, or a run with thesandalwood cutters or tortoiseshell gatherers to New Guinea; or do youwant to go ashore again and try an overlanding trip half across thecontinent, riding behind your cattle all day long, and standing yourwatch at night under dripping boughs, your teeth chattering in yourhead, waiting for the bulls to break, while every moment you expect tohear the Bunyip calling in that lonely water-hole beyond the fringe ofMulga scrub?"
"You make me almost mad with longing."
"And yet, somehow, it doesn't seem so fine when you're at it. It's whenyou come to look back upon it all from a distance of twelve thousandmiles that you feel its real charm. Then it calls to you to return inevery rustle of the leaves ashore, in the blue of the sky above, in theripple of the waves upon the beach. And it eats into your heart, so thatyou begin to think you will never be happy till you're back in the oldtumultuous devil-may-care existence again."
"What a life you've led! And how much more to be envied it seems thanthe dull monotony of our existence here in sleepy old England."
"Don't you believe it. If you wanted to change I could tell you ofdozens of men, living exactly the sort of life I've described, who wouldonly too willingly oblige you. No, no! Believe me, you've got chances ofdoing things we could never dream of. Do them, then, and let the othergo. But all the same, I think you ought to see more of the world I'vetold you of before you settle down. In fact, I hinted as much to yourfather only yesterday."
"He said that you had spoken of it to him. Oh, how I wish he would letme go!"
"Somehow, d'you know, I think he will."
I put the cutter over on another tack, and we went crashing back throughthe blue water towards the pier. The strains of the band came faintlyoff to us. I had enjoyed my sail, for I had taken a great fancy to thisbright young fellow sitting by my side. I felt I should like to havefinished the education his father had so gallantly begun. There wassomething irresistibly attractive about him, so modest, so unassuming,and yet so straightforward and gentlemanly.
Dropping him opposite the bathing machines, I went on to my ownanchorage on the other side of the pier. Then I pulled myself ashore andwent up to the town. I had forgotten to write an important letter thatmorning, and as it was essential that the business should be attended toat once, to repair my carelessness, I crossed the public gardens andwent through the gardens to the post office to send a telegram.
I must tell you here that since my meeting with Mr. Baxter, the youngMarquis's tutor, I had been thinking a great deal about him, and themore I thought the more certain I became that we had met before. To tellthe truth, a great distrust of the man was upon me. It was one of thosepeculiar antipathies that no one can explain. I did not like his face,and I felt sure that he did not boast any too much love for me.
As my thoughts were still occupied with him, my astonishment may beimagined, on arriving at the building, at meeting him face to face uponthe steps. He seemed much put out at seeing me, and hummed and hawedover his "Good-afternoon" for all the world as if I had caught him inthe middle of some guilty action.
Returning his salutation, I entered the building and looked about me fora desk at which to write my wire. There was only one vacant, and Inoticed that the pencil suspended on the string was still swinging toand fro as it had been dropped. Now Baxter had only just left thebuilding, so there could be no possible doubt that it was he who hadlast used the stand. I pulled the form towards me and prepared to write.But as I did so I noticed that the previous writer had pressed so hardupon his pencil that he had left the exact impression of his messageplainly visible upon the pad. It ran as follows:
     "LETTER RECEIVED. YOU OMMITTED REVEREDN. THE TRAIN IS LAID, BUT A     NEW ELEMENT OF DANGER HAS ARISEN."
It was addressed to "Nikola, _Green Sailor Hotel_, East India Dock Road,London," and was signed "Nineveh."
The message was so curious that I looked at it again, and the longer Ilooked the more certain I became that Baxter was the sender. Partlybecause its wording interested me, and partly for another reason whichwill become apparent later on, I inked the message over, tore it fromthe pad, and placed it carefully in my pocket-book. One thing at leastwas certain, and that was, if Baxter _were_ the sender, there wassomething underhand going on. If he were not, well, then there could beno possible harm in my keeping the form as a little souvenir of a rathercurious experience.
I wrote my own message, and having paid for it left the office. But Iwas not destined to have the society of my own thoughts for long. Hardlyhad I reached the Invalids' Walk before I felt my arm touched. To mysupreme astonishment I found myself again confronted by Mr. Baxter. Hewas now perfectly calm and greeted me with extraordinary civility.
"Mr. Hatteras, I believe," he said. "I think I had the pleasure ofmeeting you on the sands a few days ago. What a beautiful day it is,isn't it? Are you proceeding this way? Yes? Then perhaps I may bepermitted the honour of walking a short distance with you."
"With pleasure," I replied. "I am going up the cliff to my hotel, and Ishall be glad of your company. I think we met in the telegraph officejust now."
"In the post office, I think. I had occasion to go in there to registera letter."
His speech struck me as remarkable. My observation was so trivial thatit hardly needed an answer, and yet not only did he vouchsafe me one,but he corrected my statement and volunteered a further one on his ownaccount. What reason could he have for wanting to make me understandthat he had gone in there to post a letter? What would it have matteredto me if he _had_ been there, as I suggested, to send a telegram?
"Mr. Baxter," I thought to myself, "I've got a sort of conviction thatyou're not the man you pretend to be, and what's more I'd like to bet ashilling to a halfpenny that, if the truth were only known, you're ourmysterious friend Nineveh."
We walked for some distance in silence. Presently my companion began totalk again--this time, however, in a new strain, and perhaps with alittle more caution.
"You have been a great traveller, I understand."
"A fairly great one, Mr. Baxter. You also, I am told, have seensomething of the world."
"A little--very little."
"The South Seas, I believe. D'you know Papeete?"
"I have been there."
"D'you know New Guinea at all?"
"No. I was never near it. I am better acquainted with the FarEast--China, Japan, etc."
Suddenly something, I shall never be able to tell what, prompted me tosay:
"And the Andamans?"
The effect on my companion was as sudden as it was extraordinary. For amoment he staggered on the path like a drunken man; his face grew ashenpale, and he had to give utterance to a hoarse choking sound before hecould get out a word. Then he said:
"No--no--you are quite mistaken, I assure you. I never knew theAndamans."
Now, on the Andamans, as all the world knows, are located the Indianpenal establishments, and noting his behaviour, I became more and moreconvinced in my own mind that there was some mystery about Mr. Baxterthat had yet to be explained. I had still a trump card to play.
"I'm afraid you are not very well, Mr. Baxter," I said at length."Perhaps the heat is too much for you, or we are walking too fast? Thisis my hotel. Won't you come inside and take a glass of wine or somethingto revive you?"
He nodded his head eagerly. Large drops of perspiration stood on hisforehead, and I saw that he was quite unstrung. "I am not well--not atall well."
As soon as we reached the smoking-room I rang for two brandies andsodas. When they arrived he drank his off almost at a gulp, and in a fewseconds was pretty well himself again.
"Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Hatteras," he said. "I think we musthave walked up the hill a little too fast for my strength. Now, I mustbe going back to the town. I find I have forgotten something."
Almost by instinct I guessed his errand. He was going to despatchanother telegram. Resolved to try the effect of one parting shot, Isaid:
"Perhaps you do not happen to be going near the telegraph office again?If you are, should I be taxing your kindness too much if I asked you toleave a message there for me? I find _I_ have forgotten one."
He bowed and simply said: "With much pleasure."
He pronounced it "pleesure," and as he said it he licked his lips in hisusual self-satisfied fashion. I wondered how he would conduct himselfwhen he saw the message I was going to write.
Taking a form from a table near where I sat, I wrote the following:
     "John Nicholson,     "_Langham Hotel_, London.
     "The train is laid, but a new danger has arisen.
     "HATTERAS."
Blotting it carefully, I gave it into his hands, at the same time askinghim to read it, lest my writing should not be decipherable and anyquestion might be asked concerning it. As he read I watched his faceintently. Never shall I forget the expression that swept over it. I hadscored a complete victory. The shaft went home. But only for an instant.With wonderful alacrity he recovered himself and, shaking me feebly bythe hand, bade me good-bye, promising to see that my message wasproperly delivered. When he had gone I laid myself back in my chair fora good think. The situation was a peculiar one in every way. If he wereup to some devilry I had probably warned him. If not, why had hebetrayed himself so openly?
Half an hour later an answer to my first telegram arrived, and, such isthe working of Fate, it necessitated my immediate return to London. Ihad been thinking of going for some days past, but had put it off. Nowit was decided for me.
As I did not know whether I should return to Bournemouth, I determinedto call upon the Marquis to bid him good-bye. Accordingly I set off forthe house.
Now if Burke may be believed, the Duke of Glenbarth possesses houses inhalf the counties of the kingdom; but I am told his seaside residencetakes precedence of them all in his affections. Standing well out on thecliffs, it commands a lovely view of the bay--looks toward the PurbeckHills on the right, and the Isle of Wight and Hengistbury Head on theleft. The house itself, as far as I could see, left nothing to bedesired, and the grounds had been beautified in the highest form oflandscape gardening.
I found my friend and his father in a summer-house upon the lawn. Bothappeared unaffectedly glad to see me, and equally sorry to hear that Ihad come to bid them good bye. Mr. Baxter was not visible, and it waswith no little surprise I learned that he, too, was contemplating a tripto the metropolis.
"I hope, if ever you visit Bournemouth again, you will come and see us,"said the Duke as I rose to leave.
"Thank you," said I, "and I hope if ever your son visits Australia youwill permit me to be of some service to him."
"You are very kind. I will bear your offer in mind."
Shaking hands with them both, I bade them good-bye, and went out throughthe gate.
But I was not to escape without an interview with my clerical friendafter all. As I left the grounds and turned into the public road I saw aman emerge from a little wicket gate some fifty yards or so further downthe hedge. From the way he made his appearance, it was obvious he hadbeen waiting for me to leave the house.
It was, certainly enough, my old friend Baxter. As I came up with him hesaid, with the same sanctimonious grin that usually encircled his mouthplaying round it now:
"A nice evening for a stroll, Mr. Hatteras."
"A very nice evening, as you say, Mr. Baxter."
"May I intrude myself upon your privacy for five minutes?"
"With pleasure. What is your business?"
"Of small concern to you, sir, but of immense importance to me. Mr.Hatteras, I have it in my mind that you do not like me."
"I hope I have not given you cause to think so. Pray what can have putsuch a notion into your head?"
I half hoped that he would make some allusion to the telegram he haddespatched for me that morning, but he was far too cunning for that. Helooked me over and over out of his small ferrety eyes before he replied:
"I cannot tell you why I think so, Mr. Hatteras, but instinct generallymakes us aware when we are not quite all we might be to other people.Forgive me for speaking in this way to you, but you must surely see howmuch it means to me to be on good terms with friends of my employer'sfamily."
"You are surely not afraid lest I should prejudice the Duke againstyou?"
"Not afraid, Mr. Hatteras! I have too much faith in your sense ofjustice to believe that you would willingly deprive me of my means oflivelihood--for of course that is what it would mean in plain English."
"Then you need have no fear. I have just said good-bye to them. I amgoing away to-morrow, and it is improbable that I shall ever see eitherof them again."
"You are leaving for Australia?"
"Very shortly, I think."
"I am much obliged to you for the generous way you have treated me. Ishall never forget your kindness."
"Pray don't mention it. Is that all you have to say to me? Thengood-evening!"
"Good-evening, Mr. Hatteras."
He turned back, and I continued my way along the cliff, reflecting onthe curious interview I had just passed through. If the truth must beknown, I was quite at a loss to understand what he meant by it! Why hadhe asked that question about Australia? Was it only chance that had ledhim to put it, or was it done designedly, and for some reason connectedwith that mysterious "train" mentioned in his telegram?
I was to find out later, and only too thoroughly!



CHAPTER VI
I MEET DR. NIKOLA AGAIN

It is strange with what ease, rapidity, and apparent unconsciousness theaverage man jumps from crisis to crisis in that strange medley he isaccustomed so flippantly to call His Life. It was so in my case. For twodays after my return from Bournemouth I was completely immersed in thetoils of Hatton Garden, had no thought above the sale of pearls and thefluctuations in the price of shell; yet, notwithstanding all this, theafternoon of the third day found me kicking my heels on the pavement ofTrafalgar Square, my mind quite made up, my passage booked, and myticket for Australia stowed away in my waistcoat pocket.
As I stood there the grim, stone faces of the lions above me weresomehow seen obscurely, Nelson's monument was equally unregarded, for mythoughts were far away with my mind's eye, following an oceanmail-steamer as she threaded her tortuous way between the Heads andalong the placid waters of Sydney Harbour.
So wrapped up was I in the folds of this agreeable reverie, that when Ifelt a heavy hand upon my shoulder and heard a masculine voice sayjoyfully in my ear, "Dick Hatteras, or I'm a Dutchman," I started as ifI had been shot.
Brief as was the time given me for reflection, it was long enough forthat voice to conjure up a complete scene in my mind. The last time Ihad heard it was on the bridge of the steamer _Yarraman_, lying in theland-locked harbour of Cairns, on the Eastern Queensland coast; acanoeful of darkies were jabbering alongside, and a cargo of bananas wasbeing shipped aboard.
I turned and held out my hand. "Jim Percival!" I cried, with as muchpleasure as astonishment. "How on earth does it come about that you arehere?"
"Arrived three days ago," the good-looking young fellow replied. "We'relying in the River just off the West India Docks. The old man kept us atit like galley slaves till I began to think we should never get thecargo out. Been up to the office this morning, coming back saw youstanding here looking as if you were thinking of something ten thousandmiles away. I tell you I nearly jumped out of my skin with astonishment,thought there couldn't be two men with the same face and build, sosmacked you on the back, discovered I was right, and here we are. Nowspin your yarn. But stay, let's first find a more convenient place thanthis."
We strolled down the Strand together, and at last had the good fortuneto discover a "house of call" that met with even his critical approval.Here I narrated as much of my doings since we had last met, as I thoughtwould satisfy his curiosity. My meeting with that mysterious individualat the French restaurant and my suspicions of Baxter particularly amusedhim.
"What a rum beggar you are, to be sure!" was his disconcerting criticismwhen I had finished. "What earthly reason have you for thinking thatthis chap, Baxter, has any designs upon your young swell, Beckenham, orwhatever his name may be?"
"What makes you stand by to shorten sail, when you see a suspicious lookabout the sky? Instinct, isn't it?"
"That's a poor way out of the argument."
"Well, at any rate, time will show how far I'm right or wrong; though Idon't suppose I shall hear any more of the affair, as I return toAustralia in the _Saratoga_ on Friday next."
"And what are you going to do now?"
"I haven't the remotest idea. My business is completed, and I'm justkicking my heels in idleness till Friday comes and it is time for me toset off."
"Then I have it. You'll just come along down to the docks with me; I'mdue back at the old hooker at five sharp. You'll dine with us--pot luck,of course. Your old friend Riley is still chief officer; I'm second;young Cleary, whom you remember as apprentice, is now third; and, if I'mnot very much mistaken, we'll find old Donald Maclean aboard too,tinkering away at his beloved engines. I don't believe that fellow couldtake a holiday away from his thrust blocks and piston rods if he werepaid to. We'll have a palaver about old times, and I'll put you ashoremyself when you want to go. There, what do you say?"
"I'm your man," said I, jumping at his offer with an alacrity which musthave been flattering to him.
The truth was, I was delighted to have secured some sort ofcompanionship, for London, despite its multitudinous places ofamusement, and its five millions of inhabitants, is but a dismalcaravanserai to be left alone in. Moreover, the _Yarraman_'s officersand I were old friends, and, if the truth must be told, my heart yearnedfor the sight of a ship and a talk about days gone by.
Accordingly, we made our way to the docks.
The _Yarraman_, travel-stained, and bearing on her weather-beaten platesevidences of the continuous tramp-like life she had led, lay well out inthe stream. Having chartered a waterman, we were put on board, and I hadthe satisfaction of renewing my acquaintance with the chief officer,Riley, at the yawning mouth of the for'ard hatch. The whilom apprentice,Cleary, now raised to the dignity of third officer, grinned a welcome tome from among the disordered raffle of the fo'c's'le head, while thatexcellent artificer, Maclean, oil-can and spanner in hand, greeted meaffectionately in Gaelic from the entrance to the engine-room. Theskipper was ashore, so I seated myself on the steps leading to thehurricane deck, and felt at home immediately.
Upon the circumstances attending that reunion there is no necessity forme to dwell. Suffice it that we dined in the deserted saloon, andadjourned later to my friend Percival's cabin in the alley way justfor'ard of the engine-room, where several bottles of Scotch whisky, astrange collection of glass ware, and an assortment of excellent cigars,were produced. Percival and Cleary, being the juniors, ensconcedthemselves on the top bunk; Maclean (who had been induced to abandon hismachinery in honour of our meeting) was given the washhand-stand. Rileytook the cushioned locker in the corner, while I, as their guest, waspermitted the luxury of a canvas-backed deck chair, the initials on theback of which were not those of its present owner. At first theconversation was circumscribed, and embraced Plimsoll, the attractionsof London, and the decline in the price of freight; but, as the contentsof the second bottle waned, speech became more unfettered, and the talkdrifted into channels and latitudes widely different. Circumstancesconnected with bygone days were recalled; the faces of friends longhidden in the mists of time were brought again to mind; anecdotesillustrative of various types of maritime character succeeded to eachother in brisk succession, till Maclean, without warning, finding hisvoice, burst into incongruous melody. One song suggested another; abanjo was produced, and tuned to the noise of clinking glasses; andevery moment the atmosphere grew thicker.
How long this concert would have lasted I cannot say, but I remember,after the third repetition of the chorus of the sea-chanty that mighthave been heard a mile away, glancing at my watch and discovering to myastonishment that it was past ten o'clock. Then rising to my feet Iresisted all temptations to stay the night, and reminded my friendPercival of his promise to put me ashore again. He was true to his word,and five minutes later we were shoving off from the ship's side amid thevaledictions of my hosts. I have a recollection to this day of the faceof the chief engineer gazing sadly down upon me from the bulwarks, whilehis quavering voice asserted the fact, in dolorous tones, that
    "Aft hae I rov'd by bonny Doon,        To see the rose and woodbine twine;    And ilka bird sang o' its luve,        And fondly sae did I o' mine."
With this amorous farewell still ringing in my ears I landed atLimehouse Pier, and bidding my friend good-bye betook myself by thecircuitous route of Emmett and Ropemaker Streets and Church Row to thataristocratic thoroughfare known as the East India Dock Road.
The night was dark and a thick rain was falling, presenting themean-looking houses, muddy road, and foot-stained pavements in an aspectthat was even more depressing than was usual to them. Despite theinclemency of the weather and the lateness of the hour, however, thestreet was crowded; blackguard men and foul-mouthed women, such a classas I had never in all my experience of rough folk encountered before,jostled each other on the pavements with scant ceremony; costermongerscried their wares, small boys dashed in and out of the crowd at topspeed, and flaring gin palaces took in and threw out continuous streamsof victims.
For some minutes I stood watching this melancholy picture, contrastingit with others in my mind. Then turning to my left hand I pursued my wayin the direction I imagined the Stepney railway station to lie. It wasnot pleasant walking, but I was interested in the life about me--thepeople, the shops, the costermongers' barrows, and I might even say thepublic-houses.
I had not made my way more than a hundred yards along the street when anincident occurred that was destined to bring with it a train of highlyimportant circumstances. As I crossed the entrance to a small sidestreet, the door of an ill-looking tavern was suddenly thrust open andthe body of a man was propelled from it, with a considerable amount ofviolence, directly into my arms. Having no desire to act as his supportI pushed him from me, and as I did so glanced at the door through whichhe had come. Upon the glass was a picture, presumably nautical, andunder it this legend, "The Green Sailor." In a flash Bournemouth postoffice rose before my mind's eye, the startled face of Baxter on thedoor-step, the swinging pencil on the telegraph stand, and the imprintof the mysterious message addressed to "Nikola, _Green Sailor Hotel_,East India Dock Road." So complete was my astonishment that at first Icould do nothing but stand stupidly staring at it, then my curiosityasserted itself and, seeking the private entrance, I stepped inside. Ashort passage conducted me to a small and evil-smelling room abutting onthe bar. On the popular side of the counter the place was crowded; inthe chamber where I found myself I was the sole customer. A small tablestood in the centre, and round this two or three chairs were ranged,while several pugnacious prints lent an air of decoration to the walls.
On the other side, to the left of that through which I had entered, acurtained doorway hinted at a similar room beyond. A small butheavily-built man, whom I rightly judged to be the landlord, was busilyengaged with an assistant, dispensing liquor at the counter, but when Irapped upon the table he forsook his customers, and came to learn mywishes. I called for a glass of whisky, and seated myself at the tablepreparatory to commencing my inquiries as to the existence of Baxter'smysterious friend. But at the moment that I was putting my firstquestion the door behind the half-drawn curtain, which must have beeninsecurely fastened, opened about an inch, and a voice greeted my earsthat brought me up all standing with surprise. _It was the voice ofBaxter himself._
"I assure you," he was saying, "it was desperate work from beginning toend, and I was never so relieved in my life as when I discovered that hehad really come to say good-bye."
At this juncture one of them must have realized that the door was open,for I heard some one rise from his chair and come towards it. Actingunder the influence of a curiosity, which was as baneful to himself asit was fortunate for me, before closing it he opened the door wider andlooked into the room where I sat. It was Baxter, and if I live to be anhundred I shall not forget the expression on his face as his eyes fellupon me.
"Mr. Hatteras!" he gasped, clutching at the wall.
Resolved to take him at a disadvantage, I rushed towards him and shookhim warmly by the hand, at the same time noticing that he had discardedhis clerical costume. It was too late now for him to pretend that he didnot know me, and as I had taken the precaution to place my foot againstit, it was equally impossible for him to shut the door. Seeing this hefelt compelled to surrender, and I will do him the justice to admit thathe did it with as good a grace as possible.
"Mr. Baxter," I said, "this is the last place I should have expected tomeet you in. May I come in and sit down?"
Without giving him time to reply I entered the room, resolved to see whohis companion might be. Of course, in my own mind I had quite settledthat it was the person to whom he had telegraphed from Bournemouth--inother words Nikola. But who was Nikola? And had I ever seen him before?
My curiosity was destined to be satisfied, and in a most unexpectedfashion. For there, sitting at the table, a half-smoked cigarettebetween his fingers, and his face turned towards me, was the man whom Ihad seen playing chess in the restaurant, the man who had told me myname by the cards in my pocket, and the man who had warned me in such amysterious fashion about my sweetheart's departure. He was Baxter'scorrespondent! He was Nikola!
Whatever my surprise may have been, he was not in the leastdisconcerted, but rose calmly from his seat and proffered me his hand,saying as he did so:
"Good-evening, Mr. Hatteras. I am delighted to see you, and still morepleased to learn that you and my worthy old friend, Baxter, have metbefore. Won't you sit down?"
I seated myself on a chair at the further end of the table; Baxtermeanwhile looked from one to the other of us as if uncertain whether togo or stay. Presently, however, he seemed to make up his mind, andadvancing towards Nikola, said, with an earnestness that I could see wasassumed for the purpose of putting me off the scent:
"And so I cannot induce you, Dr. Nikola, to fit out an expedition forthe work I have named?"
"If I had five thousand pounds to throw away," replied Nikola, "I mightthink of it, Mr. Baxter, but as I haven't you must understand that it isimpossible." Then seeing that the other was anxious to be going, hecontinued, "Must you be off? then good-night."
Baxter shook hands with us both with laboured cordiality, and havingdone so slunk from the room. When the door closed upon him Nikola turnedto me.
"There must be some fascination about a missionary's life after all," hesaid. "My old tutor, Baxter, as you are aware, has a comfortableposition with the young Marquis of Beckenham, which, if he conductshimself properly, may lead to something really worth having in thefuture, and yet here he is anxious to surrender it in order to go backto his work in New Guinea, to his hard life, insufficient food, andalmost certain death."
"He was in New Guinea then?"
"Five years--so he tells me."
"Are you certain of that?"
"Absolutely!"
"Then all I can say is that, in spite of his cloth, Mr. Baxter does notalways tell the truth."
"I am sorry you should think that. Pray what reason have you for sayingso?"
"Simply because in a conversation I had with him at Bournemouth hedeliberately informed me that he had never been near New Guinea in hislife."
"You must have misunderstood him. However, that has nothing to do withus. Let us turn to a pleasanter subject."
He rang the bell, and the landlord having answered it, ordered morerefreshment. When it arrived he lit another cigarette, and leaning backin his chair glanced at me through half-closed eyes.
Then occurred one of the most curious and weird circumstances connectedwith this meeting. Hardly had he laid himself back in his chair before Iheard a faint scratching against the table leg, and next moment anenormous cat, black as the Pit of Tophet, sprang with a bound upon thetable and stood there steadfastly regarding me, its eyes flashing andits back arched. I have seen cats without number, Chinese, Persian,Manx, the Australian wild cat, and the English tabby, but never in thewhole course of my existence such another as that owned by Dr. Nikola.When it had regarded me with its evil eyes for nearly a minute, itstepped daintily across to its master, and rubbed itself backwards andforwards against his arm, then to my astonishment it clambered up on tohis shoulder and again gave me the benefit of its fixed attention. Dr.Nikola must have observed the amazement depicted in my face, for hesmiled in a curious fashion, and coaxing the beast down into his lapfell to stroking its fur with his long, white fingers. It was as uncannya performance as ever I had the privilege of witnessing.
"And so, Mr. Hatteras," he said slowly, "you are thinking of leavingus?"
"I am," I replied, with a little start of natural astonishment. "But howdid you know it?"
"After the conjuring tricks--we agreed to call them conjuring tricks, Ithink--I showed you a week or two ago, I wonder that you should ask sucha question. You have the ticket in your pocket even now."
All the time he had been speaking his extraordinary eyes had never leftmy face; they seemed to be reading my very soul, and his cat ablyseconded his efforts.
"By the way, I should like to ask you a few questions about those selfsame conjuring tricks," I said. "Do you know you gave me a most peculiarwarning?"
"I am very glad to hear it; I hope you profited by it."
"It cost me a good deal of uneasiness, if that's any consolation to you.I want to know how you did it?"
"My fame as a wizard would soon evaporate if I revealed my methods," heanswered, still looking steadfastly at me. "However, I will give youanother exhibition of my powers. In fact, another warning. Have youconfidence enough in me to accept it?"
"I'll wait and see what it is first," I replied cautiously, trying toremove my eyes from his.
"Well, my warning to you is this--you intend to sail in the _Saratoga_for Australia on Friday next, don't you? Well, then, don't go; as youlove your life, don't go!"
"Good gracious! and why on earth not?" I cried.
He stared fixedly at me for more than half a minute before he answered.There was no escaping those dreadful eyes, and the regular sweep ofthose long white fingers on the cat's black fur seemed to send a coldshiver right down my spine. Bit by bit I began to feel a curioussensation of dizziness creeping over me.
"Because you will _not_ go. You cannot go. I forbid you to go."
I roused myself with an effort, and sprang to my feet, crying as I didso:
"And what right have _you_ to forbid me to do anything? I'll go onFriday, come what may. And I'd like to see the man who will prevent me."
Though he must have realized that his attempt to hypnotize me (forattempt it certainly was) had proved a failure, he was not in the leastdisconcerted.
"My dear fellow," he murmured gently, knocking off the ash of hiscigarette against the table edge as he did so, "no one is seeking toprevent you. I gave you, at your own request--you will do me the justiceto admit that--a little piece of advice. If you do not care to followit, that is your concern, not mine; but pray do not blame me. Must youreally go now? Then good-night, and good-bye, for I don't suppose Ishall see you this side of the Line again."
I took his proffered hand, and wished him good-night. Having done so, Ileft the house, heartily glad to have said good-bye to the only man inmy life whom I have really feared.
When in the train, on my way back to town, I came to review the meetingin the _Green Sailor_, I found myself face to face with a series ofproblems very difficult to work out. How had Nikola first learned myname? How had he heard of the Wetherells? Was he the mysterious personhis meeting with whom had driven Wetherell out of England? Why hadBaxter telegraphed to him that "the train was laid"? Was I the newdanger that had arisen? How had Baxter come to be at the _Green Sailor_,in non-clerical costume? Why had he been so disturbed at my entry? Whyhad Nikola invented such a lame excuse to account for his presencethere? Why had he warned me not to sail in the _Saratoga_? and, aboveall, why had he resorted to hypnotism to secure his ends?
I asked myself these questions, but one by one I failed to answer themto my satisfaction. Whatever other conclusion I might have come to,however, one thing at least was certain: that was, that my originalsupposition was a correct one. There was a tremendous mystery somewhere.Whether or not I was to lose my interest in it after Friday remained tobe seen.
It was nearly twelve o'clock by the time I entered my hotel; but late asit was I found time to examine the letter rack. It contained twoenvelopes bearing my name, and taking them out I carried them with me tomy room. One, to my delight, bore the postmark of Port Said, and wasaddressed in my sweetheart's handwriting. You may guess how eagerly Itore it open, and with what avidity I devoured its contents. From it Igathered that they had arrived at the entrance of the Suez Canal safely;that her father had recovered his spirits more and more with every milethat separated him from Europe. He was now almost himself again, shesaid, but still refused with characteristic determination to entertainthe smallest notion of myself as a son-in-law. But Phyllis herself didnot despair of being able to talk him round. Then came a paragraph whichstruck me as being so peculiar as to warrant my reproducing it here:
"The passengers, what we have seen of them, appear to be, with oneexception, a nice enough set of people. That exception, however, isintolerable; his name is Prendergast, and his personal appearance is asobjectionable as his behaviour is extraordinary; his hair is snow-white,and his face is deeply pitted with smallpox. This is, of course, not hisfault, but it seems somehow to aggravate the distaste I have for him.Unfortunately we were thrown into his company in Naples, and since thenthe creature has so far presumed upon that introduction, that hescarcely leaves me alone for a moment. Papa does not seem to mind him somuch, but I thank goodness that, as he leaves the boat in Port Said, therest of the voyage will be performed without him."
The remainder of the letter had no concern for any one but myself, so Ido not give it. Having read it I folded it up and put it in my pocket,feeling that if I had been on board the boat I should in all probabilityhave allowed Mr. Prendergast to understand that his attentions weredistasteful and not in the least required. If I could only have foreseenthat within a fortnight I was to be enjoying the doubtful pleasure ofthat very gentleman's society, under circumstances as important as lifeand death, I don't doubt I should have thought still more strongly onthe subject.
The handwriting of the second envelope was bold, full of character, butquite unknown to me. I opened it with a little feeling of curiosity, andglanced at the signature, "Beckenham." It ran as follows:--
     "West Cliff, Bournemouth,     "Tuesday Evening.
     "MY DEAR MR. HATTERAS,
     "I have great and wonderful news to tell you! This week has proved     an extraordinarily eventful one for me, for what do you think? My     father has suddenly decided that I shall travel. All the details     have been settled in a great hurry. You will understand this when I     tell you that Mr. Baxter and I sail for Sydney in the steamship     _Saratoga_ next week. My father telegraphed to Mr. Baxter, who is     in London, to book our passages and to choose our cabins this     morning. I can only say that my greatest wish is that you were     coming with us. Is it so impossible? Cannot you make your     arrangements fit in? We shall travel overland to Naples and join     the boat there. This is Mr. Baxter's proposition, and you may be     sure, considering what I shall see _en route_, I have no objection     to urge against it. Our tour will be an extensive one. We visit     Australia and New Zealand, go thence to Honolulu, thence to San     Francisco, returning, across the United States, _via_ Canada, to     Liverpool.
     "You may imagine how excited I am at the prospect, and as I feel     that I owe a great measure of my good fortune to you, I want to be     the first to acquaint you of it.
     "Yours ever sincerely,     "BECKENHAM."
I read the letter through a second time, and then sat down on my bed tothink it out. One thing was self-evident. I knew now how Nikola hadbecome aware that I was going to sail in the mail boat on Friday; Baxterhad seen my name in the passenger list, and had informed him.
I undressed and went to bed, but not to sleep. I had a problem to workout, and a more than usually difficult one it was. Here was the youngMarquis of Beckenham, I told myself, only son of his father, heir to agreat name and enormous estates, induced to travel by myrepresentations. There was a conspiracy afoot in which, I could not helpfeeling certain, the young man was in some way involved. And yet I hadno right to be certain about it after all, for my suspicions at bestwere only conjectures. Now the question was whether I ought to warn theDuke or not? If I did I might be frightening him without cause, andmight stop his son's journey; and if I did not, and things wentwrong--well, in that case, I should be the innocent means of bringing agreat and lasting sorrow upon his house. Hour after hour I turned thisquestion over and over in my mind, uncertain how to act. The clockschimed their monotonous round, the noises died down and rose again inthe streets, and daylight found me only just come to a decision. I would_not_ tell them; but at the same time I would make doubly sure that Isailed aboard that ship myself, and that throughout the voyage I was bythe young man's side to guard him from ill.
Breakfast time came, and I rose from my bed wearied with thought. Even abath failed to restore my spirits. I went downstairs and, crossing thehall again, examined the rack. Another letter awaited me. I passed intothe dining-room and, seating myself at my table, ordered breakfast.Having done so, I turned to my correspondence. Fate seemed to pursue me.On this occasion the letter was from the lad's father, the Duke ofGlenbarth himself, and ran as follows:--
     "Sandridge Castle, Bournemouth,     "Wednesday.
     "DEAR MR. HATTERAS,
     "My son tells me he has acquainted you with the news of his     departure for Australia next week. I don't doubt this will cause     you some little surprise; but it has been brought about by a     curious combination of circumstances. Two days ago I received a     letter from my old friend, the Earl of Amberley, who, as you know,     has for the past few years been Governor of the colony of New South     Wales, telling me that his term of office will expire in four     months. Though he has not seen my boy since the latter was two     years old, I am anxious that he should be at the head of affairs     when he visits the colony. Hence this haste. I should have liked     nothing better than to have accompanied him myself, but business of     the utmost importance detains me in England. I am, however, sending     Mr. Baxter with him, with powerful credentials, and if it should be     in your power to do anything to assist them you will be adding     materially to the debt of gratitude I already owe you.
     "Believe me, my dear Mr. Hatteras, to be,
     "Very truly yours,     "GLENBARTH."
My breakfast finished, I answered both these letters, informed myfriends of my contemplated departure by the same steamer, and promisedthat I would do all that lay in my power to ensure both the youngtraveller's pleasure and his safety. For the rest of the morning I wasoccupied inditing a letter to my sweetheart, informing her of my returnto the Colonies, and telling her all my adventures since her departure.
The afternoon was spent in saying good-bye to the few business friends Ihad made in London, and in the evening I went for the last time to atheatre.
Five minutes to eleven o'clock next morning found me at Waterloo sittingin a first-class compartment of the West of England express, bound forPlymouth and Australia. Though the platform was crowded to excess I hadthe carriage so far to myself, and was about to congratulate myself onmy good fortune, when a porter appeared on the scene, and deposited abag in the opposite corner. A moment later, and just as the train was inmotion, a man jumped in the carriage, tipped the servant, and thenplaced a basket upon the rack. The train was half-way out of the stationbefore he turned round, and my suspicions were confirmed. _It was Dr.Nikola!_
Though he must have known who his companion was, he affected greatsurprise. "Mr. Hatteras," he cried, "I think this is the mostextraordinary coincidence I have ever experienced in my life."
"Why so?" I asked. "You knew I was going to Plymouth to-day, and onemoment's reflection must have told you, that as my boat sails at eight,I would be certain to take the morning express, which lands me there atfive. Should I be indiscreet if I asked where you may be going?"
"Like yourself, I am also visiting Plymouth," he answered, taking thebasket, before mentioned, down from the rack, and drawing a French novelfrom his coat pocket. "I expect an old Indian friend home by the mailboat that arrives to-night. I am going down to meet him."
I felt relieved to hear that he was not thinking of sailing in the_Saratoga_, and after a few polite commonplaces, we both lapsed intosilence. I was too suspicious, and he was too wary, to appear overfriendly. Clapham, Wimbledon, Surbiton, came and went. Weybridge andWoking flashed by at lightning speed, and even Basingstoke was reachedbefore we spoke again. That station behind us, Dr. Nikola took thebasket before mentioned on his knee, and opened it. When he had done so,the same enormous black cat, whose acquaintance I had made in the EastIndia Dock Road, stepped proudly forth. In the daylight the brute lookedeven larger and certainly fiercer than before. I felt I should haveliked nothing better than to have taken it by the tail and hurled it outof the window. Nikola, on the other hand, seemed to entertain for it themost extraordinary affection.
Now such was this marvellous man's power of fascination that by the timewe reached Andover Junction his conversation had roused me quite out ofmyself, had made me forget my previous distrust of him, and enabled meto tell myself that this railway journey was one of the most enjoyable Ihad ever undertaken.
In Salisbury we took luncheon baskets on board, with, two bottles ofchampagne, for which my companion, in spite of my vigorous protest,would insist upon paying.
As the train rolled along the charming valley, in which lie theminiature towns of Wilton, Dinton, and Tisbury, we pledged each other inright good fellowship, and by the time Exeter was reached were friendlyenough to have journeyed round the world together.
Exeter behind us, I began to feel drowsy, and presently was fast asleep.
I remember no more of that ill-fated journey; nor, indeed, have I anyrecollection of anything at all, until I woke up in Room No. 37 of the_Ship and Vulture Hotel_ in Plymouth.
The sunshine was streaming in through the slats of the Venetian blinds,and a portly gentleman, with a rosy face, and grey hair, was standing bymy bedside, holding my wrist in his hand, and calmly scrutinizing me. Anurse in hospital dress stood beside him.
"I think he'll do now," he said to her as he rubbed his plump handstogether; "but I'll look round in the course of the afternoon."
"One moment," I said feebly, for I found I was too weak to speak above awhisper. "Would you mind telling me where I am, and what is the matterwith me?"
"I should very much like to be able to do so," was the doctor's reply."My opinion is, if you want me to be candid, that you have been druggedand well-nigh poisoned by a remarkably clever chemist. But what the drugand poison were, and who administered it to you, and the motive fordoing so, is more than I can tell you. From what I can learn from thehotel proprietors, you were brought here from the railway station in acab last night by a gentleman who happened to find you in the carriagein which you travelled down from London. You were in such a curiouscondition that I was sent for and this nurse procured. Now you know allabout it."
"What day did you say this is?"
"Saturday, to be sure."
"Saturday!" I cried. "You don't mean that! Then, by Jove, I've missedthe _Saratoga_ after all. Here, let me get up! And tell them downstairsto send for the Inspector of Police. I have got to get to the bottom ofthis."
I sat up in bed, but was only too glad to lie down. I looked at thedoctor.
"How long before you can have me fit to travel?"
"Give yourself three days' rest and quiet," he replied, "and we'll seewhat we can do."
"Three days? And two days and a half to cross the Continent, that's fiveand a half--say six days. Good! I'll catch the boat in Naples, and then,Dr. Nikola, if you're aboard, as I suspect, I advise you to look out."



CHAPTER VII
PORT SAID, AND WHAT BEFEL US THERE

Fortunately for me my arrangements fitted in exactly, so that at onethirty p.m., on the seventh day after my fatal meeting with Dr. Nikolain the West of England express, I had crossed the Continent, and stoodlooking out on the blue waters of Naples Bay. To my right was the hillof San Martino, behind me that of Capo di Monte, while in the distance,to the southward, rose the cloud-tipped summit of Vesuvius. The journeyfrom London is generally considered, I believe, a long and wearisomeone; it certainly proved so to me, for it must be remembered that mymind was impatient of every delay, while my bodily health was not as yetrecovered.
The first thing to be done on arrival at the terminus was to discover aquiet hotel; a place where I could rest and recoup during the heat ofthe day, and, what was perhaps more important, where I should run norisk of meeting with Dr. Nikola or his satellites. I had originallyintended calling at the office of the steamship company in order toexplain the reason of my not joining the boat in Plymouth, planningafterwards to cast about me, among the various hotels, for the Marquisof Beckenham and Mr. Baxter. But, on second thoughts, I saw the wisdomof abandoning both these courses.
Nor for the same reason did I feel inclined to board the steamer, whichI could see lying out in the harbour, until darkness had fallen. Iascertained, however, that she was due to sail at midnight, and that themails were already being got aboard.
Almost exactly as eight o'clock was striking, I mounted the gangway, andstrolled down the promenade deck to the first saloon entrance; thencalling a steward to my assistance, I had my baggage conveyed to mycabin, where I set to work arranging my little knicknacks, and makingmyself comfortable for the voyage that lay before us. So far I had seennothing of my friends, and, on making inquiries, I discovered that theyhad not yet come aboard. Indeed, they did not do so until the last boathad discharged its burden at the gangway. Then I met Lord Beckenham onthe promenade deck, and unaffected was the young man's delight at seeingme.
"Mr. Hatteras," he cried, running forward to greet me with out-stretchedhand, "this was all that was wanting to make my happiness complete. I_am_ glad to see you. I hope your cabin is near ours."
"I'm on the port side just abaft the pantry," I answered, shaking him bythe hand. "But tell me about yourself. I expect you had a pleasantjourney across the Continent."
"Delightful!" was his reply. "We stayed a day in Paris, and another inRome, and since we have been here we have been rushing about seeingeverything, like a regulation pair of British tourists."
At this moment Mr. Baxter, who had been looking after the luggage, Isuppose, made his appearance, and greeted me with more cordiality than Ihad expected him to show. To my intense surprise, however, he allowed nosign of astonishment to escape him at my having joined the boat afterall. But a few minutes later, as we were approaching the companionsteps, he said:--"I understood from his lordship, Mr. Hatteras, that youwere to embark at Plymouth; was I mistaken, therefore, when I thought Isaw you coming off with your luggage this evening?"
"No, you were not mistaken," I answered, being able now to account forthis lack of surprise. "I came across the Continent like yourselves, andonly joined the vessel a couple of hours ago."
Here the Marquis chimed in, and diverted the conversation into anotherchannel.
"Where is everybody?" he asked, when Mr. Baxter had left us and gonebelow. "There are a lot of names on the passenger list, and yet I seenobody about!"
"They are all in bed," I answered. "It is getting late, you see, and, ifI am not mistaken, we shall be under way in a few minutes."
"Then, I think, if you'll excuse me for a few moments, I'll go below tomy cabin. I expect Mr. Baxter will be wondering where I am."
When he had left me I turned to the bulwarks and stood looking acrossthe water at the gleaming lights ashore. One by one the boats alongsidepushed off, and from the sounds that came from for'ard, I gathered thatthe anchor was being got aboard. Five minutes later we had swung roundto our course and were facing for the open sea. For the first mile or somy thoughts chased each other in rapid succession. You must rememberthat it was in Naples I had learnt that my darling loved me, and it wasin Naples now that I was bidding good-bye to Europe and to all thestrange events that had befallen me there. I leant upon the rail, lookedat the fast receding country in our wake, at old Vesuvius, fire-capped,away to port, at the Great Bear swinging in the heavens to the nor'ard,and then thought of the Southern Cross which, before many weeks werepassed, would be lifting its head above our bows to welcome me back tothe sunny land and to the girl I loved so well. Somehow I felt glad thatthe trip to England was over, and that I was on my way home at last.
The steamer ploughed her almost silent course, and three-quarters of anhour later we were abreast of Capri. As I was looking at it, LordBeckenham came down the deck and stood beside me. His first speech toldme that he was still under the influence of his excitement; indeed, hespoke in rapturous terms of the enjoyment he expected to derive from histour.
"Are you sure you will be a good sailor?" I asked.
"Oh, I have no fear of that," he answered confidently. "As you know, Ihave been out in my boat in some pretty rough weather and never felt inthe least ill, so I don't think it is likely that I shall begin to be abad sailor on a vessel the size of the _Saratoga_. By the way, when arewe due to reach Port Said?"
"Next Thursday afternoon, I believe, if all goes well."
"Will you let me go ashore with you if you go? I don't want to botheryou, but after all you have told me about the place, I should like tosee it in your company."
"I'll take you with pleasure," I answered, "provided Mr. Baxter giveshis consent. I suppose we must regard him as skipper."
"Oh, I don't think we need fear his refusing. He is very good-natured,you know, and lets me have my own way a good deal."
"Where is he now?"
"Down below, asleep. He has had a lot of running about to-day, andthought he would turn in before we got under way. I think I had betterbe going now. Good-night."
"Good-night," I answered, and he left me again.
When I was alone I returned to my thoughts of Phyllis and the future,and as soon as my pipe was finished, went below to my bunk. My berthmate I had discovered earlier in the evening was a portly Englishmerchant of the old school, who was visiting his agents in Australia;and, from the violence of his snores, I should judge had not muchtrouble on his mind. Fortunately mine was the lower bunk, and, when Ihad undressed, I turned into it to sleep like a top until roused by thebath-room steward at half-past seven next morning. After a good bathe Iwent back to my cabin and set to work to dress. My companion by thistime was awake, but evidently not much inclined for conversation. Hisusual jovial face, it struck me, was not as rosy as when I had made hisacquaintance the night before, and I judged that his good spirits weremore than half assumed.
All this time a smart sea was running, and, I must own, the _Saratoga_was rolling abominably.
"A very good morning to you, my dear sir," my cabin mate said, with anair of enjoyment his pallid face belied, as I entered the berth. "Prayhow do you feel to-day?"
"In first-class form, and as hungry as a hunter."
He laid himself back on his pillow with a remark that sounded very muchlike "Oh dear," and thereafter I was suffered to shave and complete mytoilet in silence. Having done so I put on my cap and went on deck.
It was indeed a glorious morning; bright sunshine streamed upon thedecks, the sea was a perfect blue, and so clear was the air that, milesdistant though it was from us, the Italian coast-line could be plainlydiscerned above the port bulwarks. By this time I had cross-examined thechief steward, and satisfied myself that Nikola was not aboard. Hisabsence puzzled me considerably. Was it possible that I could have beenmistaken in the whole affair, and that Baxter's motives were honestafter all? But in that case why had Nikola drugged me? And why had hewarned me against sailing in the _Saratoga_? The better to think it outI set myself for a vigorous tramp round the hurricane deck, and wasstill revolving the matter in my mind, when, on turning the corner bythe smoking-room entrance, I found myself face to face with Baxterhimself. As soon as he saw me, he came smiling towards me, holding outhis hand.
"Good-morning, Mr. Hatteras," he said briskly; "what a delightfulmorning it is, to be sure. You cannot tell how much I am enjoying it.The sea air seems to have made a new man of me already."
"I am glad to hear it. And pray how is your charge?" I asked, morepuzzled than ever by this display of affability.
"Not at all well, I am sorry to say."
"Not well? You don't surely mean to say that he is sea-sick?"
"I'm sorry to say I do. He was perfectly well until he got out of hisbunk half an hour ago. Then a sudden, but violent, fit of nausea seizedhim, and drove him back to bed again."
"I am very sorry to hear it, I hope he will be better soon. He wouldhave been one of the last men I should have expected to be bowled over.Are you coming for a turn round?"
"I shall feel honoured," he answered, and thereupon we set off, step forstep, for a constitutional round the deck. By the time we had finishedit was nine o'clock, and the saloon gong had sounded for breakfast.
The meal over, I repaired to the Marquis's cabin, and having knocked,was bidden enter. I found my lord in bed, retching violently; hiscomplexion was the colour of zinc, his hands were cold and clammy, andafter every spasm his face streamed with perspiration.
"I am indeed sorry to see you like this," I said, bending over him. "Howdo you feel now?"
"Very bad, indeed!" he answered, with a groan. "I cannot understand itat all. Before I got out of bed this morning I felt as well as possible.Then Mr. Baxter was kind enough to bring me a cup of coffee, and withinfive minutes of drinking it, I was obliged to go back to bed feelinghopelessly sick and miserable."
"Well, you must try and get round as soon as you can, and come on deck;there's a splendid breeze blowing, and you'll find that will clear thesickness out of you before you know where you are."
But his only reply was another awful fit of sickness, that made as if itwould tear his chest asunder. While he was under the influence of it,his tutor entered, and set about ministering to him with a care andfatherly tenderness that even deceived me. I can see things more plainlynow, on looking back at them, than I could then, but I must own thatBaxter's behaviour towards the boy that morning was of a kind that wouldhave hoodwinked the very Master of All Lies himself. I could easilyunderstand now how this man had come to have such an influence over thekindly-natured Duke of Glenbarth, who, when all was said and done, couldhave had but small experience of men of Baxter's type.
Seeing that, instead of helping, I was only in the way, I expressed ahope that the patient would soon be himself again, and returned to thedeck.
Luncheon came, and still Lord Beckenham was unable to leave his berth.In the evening he was no better. The following morning he was, ifanything, stronger; but towards mid-day, just as he was thinking ofgetting up, his nausea returned upon him, and he was obliged to postponethe attempt. On Wednesday there was no improvement, and, indeed, it wasnot until Thursday afternoon, when the low-lying coast of Port Said wasshowing above the sea-line, that he felt in any way fit to leave hisbunk. In all my experience of sea-sickness I had never known a moreextraordinary case.
It was almost dark before we dropped our anchor off the town, and assoon as we were at a standstill I went below to my friend's cabin. Hewas sitting on the locker fully dressed.
"Port Said," I announced. "Now, how do you feel about going ashore?Personally, I don't think you had better try it."
"Oh! but I want to go. I have been looking forward to it so much. I ammuch stronger than I was, believe me, and Mr. Baxter doesn't think itcould possibly hurt me."
"If you don't tire yourself too much," that gentleman put in.
"Very well, then," I said. "In that case I'm your man. There are plentyof boats alongside, so we'll have no difficulty about getting there.Won't you come, too, Mr. Baxter?"
"I think not, thank you," he answered. "Port Said is not a place ofwhich I am very fond."
"In that case I think we had better be going," I said, turning to hislordship.
We made our way on deck, and, after a little chaffering, secured a boat,in which we were pulled ashore. Having arrived there, we wereimmediately beset by the usual crowd of beggars and donkey boys, but,withstanding their importunities, we turned into the Rue de Commerce andmade our way inland. To my companion the crowded streets, the diversityof nationalities and costume, and the strange variety of shops andwares, were matters of absorbing interest. This will be the betterunderstood when it is remembered that, poor though Port Said is inorientalism, it was nevertheless the first Eastern port he hadencountered. We had both a few purchases to make, and this businesssatisfactorily accomplished, we started off to see the sights.
Passing out of the Rue de Commerce, our attention was attracted by alame young beggar who, leaning on his crutches, blocked our way while herecited his dismal catalogue of woes. Our guide bade him be off, andindeed I was not sorry to be rid of him, but I could see, by glancing athis face, that my companion had taken his case more seriously. In fact,we had not proceeded more than twenty yards before he asked me to wait amoment for him, and taking to his heels ran back to the spot where wehad left him. When he rejoined us I said:--"You don't mean to say thatyou gave that rascal money?"
"Only half a sovereign," he answered. "Perhaps you didn't hear thepitiful story he told us? His father is dead, and now, if it were notfor his begging, his mother and five young sisters would all bestarving."
I asked our guide if he knew the man, and whether his tale were true.
"No, monsieur," he replied promptly, "it is all one big lie. His fatheris in the jail, and, if she had her rights, his mother would be theretoo."
Not another word was said on the subject, but I could see that the boy'sgenerous heart had been hurt. How little he guessed the effect thatoutburst of generosity was to have upon us later on!
At our guide's suggestion, we passed from the commercial, through theEuropean quarter, to a large mosque situated in Arab Town. It was a longwalk, but we were promised that we should see something there that wouldamply compensate us for any trouble we might be put to to reach it. Thisturned out to be the case, but hardly in the fashion he had predicted.
The mosque was certainly a fine building, and at the time of our visitwas thronged with worshippers. They knelt in two long lines, reachingfrom end to end, their feet were bare, and their heads turned towardsthe east. By our guide's instructions we removed our boots at theentrance, but fortunately took the precaution of carrying them into thebuilding with us. From the main hall we passed into a smaller one, wherea number of Egyptian standards, relics of the war of '82, were unrolledfor our inspection. While we were examining them, our guide, who had fora moment left us, returned with a scared face to inform us that therewere a number of English tourists in the mosque who had refused to taketheir boots off, and were evidently bent on making trouble. As he spokethe ominous hum of angry voices drifted in to us, increasing in volumeas we listened. Our guide pricked up his ears and looked anxiously atthe door.
"There will be trouble directly," he said solemnly, "if those young mendo not behave themselves. If messieurs will be guided by me, they willbe going. I can show them a backway out."
For a moment I felt inclined to follow his advice, but Beckenham's nextspeech decided me to stay.
"You will not go away and leave those stupid fellows to be killed?" hesaid, moving towards the door into the mosque proper. "However foolishthey may have been, they are still our countrymen, and whatever happenswe ought to stand by them."
"If you think so, of course we will, but remember it may cost us ourlives. You still want to stay? Very good, then, come along, but stickclose to me."
We left the small ante-room, in which we had been examining the flags,and passed back into the main hall. Here an extraordinary scenepresented itself.
In the furthest corner, completely hemmed in by a crowd of furiousArabs, were three young Englishmen, whose faces plainly showed how wellthey understood the dangerous position into which their own impudenceand folly had enticed them.
Elbowing our way through the crowd, we reached their side, andimmediately called upon them to push their way towards the big doors;but before this man[oe]uvre could be executed, some one had given anorder in Arabic, and we were all borne back against the wall.
"There is no help for it!" I cried to the biggest of the strangers. "Wemust fight our way out. Choose your men and come along."
So saying, I gave the man nearest me one under the jaw to remember meby, which laid him on his back, and then, having room to use my arms,sent down another to keep him company. All this time my companions werenot idle, and to my surprise I saw the young Marquis laying about himwith a science that I had to own afterwards did credit to his education.Our assailants evidently did not expect to meet with this resistance,for they gave way and began to back towards the door. One or two of themdrew knives, but the space was too cramped for them to do much harm withthem.
"One more rush," I cried, "and we'll turn them out."
We made the rush, and next moment the doors were closed and barred onthe last of them. This done, we paused to consider our position. True wehad driven the enemy from the citadel, but then, unless we could find ameans of escape, we ourselves were equally prisoners in it. What was tobe done?
Leaving three of our party to guard the doors, the remainder searchedthe adjoining rooms for a means of escape; but though we wereunsuccessful in our attempt to find an exit, we did what was the nextbest thing to do, discovered our cowardly guide in a corner, skulking ina curious sort of cupboard.
By the time we had proved to him that the enemy were really driven out,and that we had possession of the mosque, he recovered his wits alittle, and managed, after hearing our promise to throw him to the moboutside unless he discovered a means of escape for us, to cudgel hisbrains and announce that he knew of one.
No sooner did we hear this, than we resolved to profit by it. The moboutside was growing every moment more impatient, and from the clang ofsteel-shod rifle butts on the stone steps we came to the conclusion thatthe services of a force of soldiery had been called in. The situationwas critical, and twice imperious demands were made upon us to open thedoor. But, as may be supposed, this we did not feel inclined to do.
"Now, for your way out," I said, taking our trembling guide, whose faceseemed to blanch whiter and whiter with every knock upon the door, bythe shoulders, and giving him a preliminary shake. "Mind what you'reabout, and remember, if you lead us into any trap, I'll wring yourmiserable neck, assure as you're alive. Go ahead."
Collecting our boots and shoes, which, throughout the tumult, had beenlying scattered about upon the floor, we passed into the ante-room, andput them on. Then creeping softly out by another door, we reached asmall courtyard in the rear, surrounded on all sides by high walls. Ourway, so our guide informed us, lay over one of these. But how we were tosurmount them was a puzzle, for the lowest scaling place was at leasttwelve feet high. However, the business had to be done, and, what wasmore to the point, done quickly.
Calling the strongest of the tourists, who were by this time all quitesober, to my side, I bade him stoop down as if he were playingleap-frog; then, mounting his back myself, I stood upright, andstretched my arms above my head. To my delight my fingers reached towithin a few inches of the top of the wall.
"Stand as steady as you can," I whispered, "for I'm going to jump."
I did so, and clutched the edge. When I had pulled myself to the top Iwas so completely exhausted as to be unable to do anything for more thana minute. Then I whispered to another man to climb upon the first man'sback, and stretch his hands up to mine. He did so, and I pulled him upbeside me. The guide came next, then the other tourist, then LordBeckenham. After which I took off and lowered my coat to the man who hadstood for us all, and having done so, took a firm grip of the wall withmy legs, and dragged him up as I had done the others. It had been alonger business than I liked, and every moment, while we were about it,I expected to hear the cries of the mob inside the mosque, and to findthem pouring into the yard to prevent our escape. The bolts on the door,however, must have possessed greater strength than we gave them creditfor. At any rate, they did not give way.
When we were all safely on the wall, I asked the guide in whichdirection we should now proceed; he pointed to the adjoining roofs, andin Indian file, and with the stealthiness of cats, we accordingly creptacross them.
The third house surmounted, we found ourselves overlooking a narrowalley, into which we first peered carefully, and, having discovered thatno one was about, eventually dropped.
"Now," said the guide, as soon as we were down, "we must run along here,and turn to the left."
We did so, to find ourselves in a broader street, which eventuallybrought us out into the thoroughfare through which we had passed toreach the mosque.
Having got our bearings now, we headed for the harbour, or at least forthat part of the town with which I was best acquainted, as fast as ourlegs would carry us. But, startling as they had been, we had not yetdone with adventures for the night.
Once in the security of the gaslit streets, we said good-bye to the menwho had got us into all the trouble, and having come to terms with ourguide, packed him off and proceeded upon our way alone.
Five minutes later the streaming lights of an open doorway brought us toa standstill, and one glance told us we were looking into the Casino.The noise of the roulette tables greeted our ears, and as we had stillplenty of time, and my companion was not tired, I thought it a goodopportunity to show him another phase of the seamy side of life.
But before I say anything about that I must chronicle a curiouscircumstance. As we were entering the building, something made me lookround. To my intense astonishment I saw, or believed I saw, Dr. Nikolastanding in the street, regarding me. Bidding my companion remain wherehe was for a moment, I dashed out again and ran towards the place whereI had seen the figure. But I was too late. If it were Dr. Nikola, he hadvanished as suddenly as he had come. I hunted here, there, andeverywhere, in doorways, under verandahs, and down lanes, but it was nouse, not a trace of him could I discover. So abandoning my search, Ireturned to the Casino. Beckenham was waiting for me, and together weentered the building.
The room was packed, and consequently all the tables were crowded, butas we did not intend playing, this was a matter of small concern to us.We were more interested in the players than the game. And, indeed, theexpressions on the faces around us were extraordinary. The effect on theyoung man by my side was peculiar. He looked from face to face, as if hewere observing the peculiarities of some strange animals. I watched him,and then I saw his expression suddenly change.
Following the direction of his eyes, I observed a young man putting downhis stake upon the board. His face was hidden from me, but by taking astep to the right I could command it. It was none other than the youngcripple who had represented his parents to be in such poverty-strickencircumstances; the same young man whom Beckenham had assisted sogenerously only two hours before. As we looked, he staked his last coin,and that being lost, turned to leave the building. To do this, it wasnecessary that he should pass close by where we stood. Then his eyes metthose of his benefactor, and with a look of what might almost have beenshame upon his face, he slunk down the steps and from the building.
"Come, let us get out of this place," cried my companion impatiently, "Ibelieve I should go mad if I stayed here long."
Thereupon we passed out into the street, and without further adoproceeded in the direction in which I imagined the _Saratoga_ to lie. Ayouth requested, in broken English, to be permitted the honour ofpiloting us, but feeling confident of being able to find my way Ideclined his services. For fully a quarter of an hour we plodded on,until I began to wonder why the harbour did not heave in sight. It was aqueer part of the town we found ourselves in; the houses wereperceptibly meaner and the streets narrower. At last I felt bound toconfess that I was out of my reckoning, and did not know where we were.
"What are we to do?" asked my lord, looking at his watch. "It's twentyminutes to eleven, and I promised Mr. Baxter I would not be later thanthe hour."
"What an idiot I was not to take that guide!"
The words were hardly out of my mouth before that personage appearedround the corner and came towards us. I hailed his coming with too muchdelight to notice the expression of malignant satisfaction on his face,and gave him the name of the vessel we desired to find. He appeared tounderstand, and the next moment we were marching off in an exactlycontrary direction.
We must have walked for at least ten minutes without speaking a word.
From one small and dirty street we turned into another and broader one.By this time not a soul was to be seen, only a vagrant dog or two lyingasleep in the road. In this portion of the town gas lamps were at adiscount, consequently more than half the streets lay in deep shadow.Our guide walked ahead, we followed half-a-dozen paces or so behind him.I remember noticing a Greek cognomen upon a sign board, and recalling asimilar name in Thursday Island, when something very much resembling athin cord touched my nose and fell over my chin. Before I could put myhand up to it it had begun to tighten round my throat. Just at the samemoment I heard my companion utter a sharp cry, and after that I rememberno more.



CHAPTER VIII
OUR IMPRISONMENT AND ATTEMPT AT ESCAPE

For what length of time I lay unconscious after hearing Beckenham's cry,and feeling the cord tighten round my throat, as narrated in thepreceding chapter, I have not the remotest idea; I only know that whenmy senses returned to me again I found myself in complete darkness. Thecord was gone from my neck, it is true, but something was stillencircling it in a highly unpleasant fashion. On putting my hand up toit, to my intense astonishment, I discovered it to be a collar of iron,padlocked at the side, and communicating with a wall at the back bymeans of a stout chain fixed in a ring, which again was attached to aswivel.
This ominous discovery set me hunting about to find out where I was, andfor a clue as to what these things might mean. That I was in a room wasevident from the fact that, by putting my hands behind me, I could touchtwo walls forming a corner. But in what part of the town such room mightbe was beyond my telling. One thing was evident, however, the walls wereof brick, unplastered and quite innocent of paper.
As not a ray of light relieved the darkness I put my hand into my ticketpocket, where I was accustomed to carry matches, and finding that mycaptors had not deprived me of them, lit one and looked about me. It wasa dismal scene that little gleam illumined. The room in which I wasconfined was a small one, being only about ten feet long by eight wide,while, if I had been able to stand upright, I might have raised my handto within two or three inches of the ceiling. In the furthest left-handcorner was a door, while in the wall on the right, but hopelessly beyondmy reach, was a low window almost completely boarded up. I had noopportunity of seeing more, for by the time I had realized these factsthe match had burnt down to my fingers. I blew it out and hastened tolight another.
Just as I did so a low moan reached my ear. It came from the further endof the room. Again I held the match aloft; this time to discover ahuddled-up figure in the corner opposite the door. One glance at it toldme that it was none other than my young friend the Marquis of Beckenham.He was evidently still unconscious, for though I called him twice byname, he did not answer, but continued in the same position, moaningsoftly as before. I had only time for a hurried glance at him before mylast match burned down to my fingers, and had to be extinguished. Withthe departure of the light a return of faintness seized me, and I fellback into my corner, if not quite insensible, certainly unconscious ofthe immediate awkwardness of our position.
It was daylight when my power of thinking returned to me, and longshafts of sunshine were percolating into us through the chinks in theboards upon the window. To my dismay the room looked even smaller anddingier than when I had examined it by the light of my match some hoursbefore. The young Marquis lay unconscious in his corner just as I hadlast seen him, but with the widening light I discovered that his curiousposture was due more to extraneous circumstances than to his ownweakness, for I could see that he was fastened to the wall by a similarcollar to my own.
I took out my watch, which had not been taken from me as I might haveexpected, and examined the dial. It wanted five minutes of six o'clock.So putting it back into my pocket, I set myself for the second time totry and discover where we were. By reason of my position and the chainthat bound me, this could only be done by listening, so I shut my eyesand put all my being into my ears. For some moments no sound rewarded myattention. Then a cock in a neighbouring yard on my right crowedlustily, a dog on my left barked, and a moment later I heard the faintsound of some one coming along the street. The pedestrian, whoever hemight be, was approaching from the right hand, and, what was still moreimportant, my trained ear informed me that he was lame of one leg, andwalked with crutches. Closer and closer he came. But to my surprise hedid not pass the window; indeed, I noticed that when he came level withit the sound was completely lost to me. This told me two things: one,that the window, which was boarded up, did not look into the mainthoroughfare; the other, that the street itself ran along on the farside of the very wall to which my chain was attached.
As I arrived at the knowledge of this fact, Beckenham opened his eyes;he sat up as well as his chain would permit, and gazed about him in adazed fashion. Then his right hand went up to the iron collar enclosinghis neck, and when he had realized what it meant he appeared even moremystified than before. He seemed to doze again for a minute or so, thenhis eyes opened, and as they did so they fell upon me, and hisperplexity found relief in words.
"Mr. Hatteras," he said, in a voice like that of a man talking in hissleep, "where are we and what on earth does this chain mean?"
"You ask me something that I want to know myself," I answered. "I cannottell you where we are, except that we are in Port Said. But if you wantto know what I think it means, well, I think it means treachery. How doyou feel now?"
"Very sick indeed, and my head aches horribly. But I can't understand itat all. What do you mean by saying that it is treachery?"
This was the one question of all others I had been dreading, for I couldnot help feeling that when all was said and done I was bitterly toblame. However, unpleasant or not, the explanation had to be gotthrough, and without delay.
"Lord Beckenham," I began, sitting upright and clasping my hands roundmy knees, "this is a pretty bad business for me. I haven't thereputation of being a coward, but I'll own I feel pretty rocky and meanwhen I see you sitting there on the floor with that iron collar roundyour neck and that chain holding you to the wall, and know that it's, ina measure, all my stupid, blundering folly that has brought it about."
"Oh, don't say that, Mr. Hatteras!" was the young man's generous reply."For whatever or whoever may be to blame for it, I'm sure you're not."
"That's because you don't know everything, my lord. Wait till you haveheard what I have to tell you before you give me such completeabsolution."
"I'm not going to blame you whatever you may tell me; but please go on!"
There and then I set to work and told him all that had happened to mesince my arrival in London; informed him of my meeting with Nikola, ofWetherell's hasty departure for Australia, of my distrust for Baxter,described the telegram incident and Baxter's curious behaviourafterwards, narrated my subsequent meeting with the two men in the_Green Sailor Hotel_, described my journey to Plymouth, and finishedwith the catastrophe that had happened to me there.
"Now you see," I said in conclusion, "why I regard myself as being somuch to blame."
"Excuse me," he answered, "but I cannot say that I see it in the samelight at all."
"I'm afraid I must be more explicit then. In the first place you mustunderstand that, without a shadow of a doubt, Baxter was chosen for yourtutor by Nikola, whose agent he undoubtedly is, for a specific purpose.Now what do you think that purpose was? You don't know? To induce yourfather to let you travel, to be sure. You ask why they should want youto travel? We'll come to that directly. Their plan is succeedingadmirably, when I come upon the scene and, like the great blunderingidiot I am, must needs set to work unconsciously to assist them in theirnefarious designs. Your father eventually consents, and it is arrangedthat you shall set off for Australia at once. Then it is discovered thatI am going to leave in the same boat. This does not suit Nikola's plansat all, so he determines to prevent my sailing with you. By a happychance he is unsuccessful, and I follow and join the boat in Naples.Good gracious! I see something else now."
"What is that?"
"Simply this. I could not help thinking at the time that your bout ofsea-sickness between Naples and this infernal place was extraordinary.Well, if I'm not very much mistaken, _you were physicked, and it wasBaxter's doing_."
"But why?"
"Ah! That's yet to be discovered. But you may bet your bottom dollar itwas some part of their devilish conspiracy. I'm as certain of that asthat we are here now. Now here's another point. Do you remember myrunning out of the Casino last night? Well, that was because I sawNikola standing in the roadway."
"Are you certain? How could he have got here? And what could his reasonsbe for watching us?"
"Why, can't you see? To find out how his plot is succeeding, to besure."
"And that brings us back to our original question--what is that plot?"
"That's rather more difficult to answer! But if you ask my candidopinion I should say nothing more nor less than to make you prisoner andblackmail your father for a ransom."
For some few minutes neither of us spoke. The outlook seemed toohopeless for words, and the Marquis was still too weak to keep up ananimated conversation for any length of time. He sat leaning his head onhis hand. But presently he looked up again. "My poor father!" he said."What a state he will be in!"
"And what worries me more," I answered, "is how he will regret everhaving listened to my advice. What a dolt I was not to have told him ofmy suspicions."
"You must not blame yourself for that. I am sure my father would holdyou as innocent as I do. Now let us consider our position. In the firstplace, where are we, do you think? In the second, is there any possiblechance of escape?"
"To the first my answer is, 'don't know'; to the second, 'can't say.' Ihave discovered one thing, however, and that is that the street does notlie outside that window, but runs along on the other side of this wallbehind me. The window, I suspect, looks out on to some sort of acourtyard. But unfortunately that information is not much use to us, aswe can neither of us move away from where we are placed."
"Is there no other way?"
"Not one, as far as I can tell. Can you see anything on your side?"
"Nothing at all, unless we could get at the door. But what's thatsticking out of the wall near your feet?"
To get a better view of it I stooped as much as I was able. "It lookslike a pipe."
The end of a pipe it certainly was, and sticking out into the room, butwhere it led to, and why it had been cut off in this peculiar fashion,were two questions I could no more answer than I could fly.
"Does it run out into the street, do you think?" was Beckenham'simmediate query. "If so, you might manage to call through it to somepasser-by, and ask him to obtain assistance for us!"
"A splendid notion if I could get my mouth anywhere within a foot of it,but as this chain will not permit me to do that, it might as well be ahundred miles off. It's as much as I can do to touch it with myfingers."
"Do you think if you had a stick you could push a piece of paperthrough? We might write a message."
"Possibly, but there's another drawback to that. I haven't the necessarypiece of stick."
"Here is a stiff piece of straw; try that."
He harpooned a piece of straw, about eight inches long, across the roomtowards me, and, when I had received it, I thrust it carefully into thepipe. A disappointment, however, was in store for us.
"It's no use," I reported sorrowfully, as I threw the straw away. "Ithas an elbow half-way down, and that would prevent any message frombeing pushed through."
"Then we must try to discover some other plan. Don't lose heart!"
"Hush! I hear somebody coming."
True enough a heavy footfall was approaching down the passage. Itstopped at the door of the room in which we were confined, and a key wasinserted in the lock. Next moment the door swung open and a tall manentered the room. A ray of sunlight, penetrating between the boards thatcovered the window, fell upon him, and showed us that his hair was whiteand that his face was deeply pitted with smallpox marks. Now, where hadI met or heard of a man with those two peculiarities before? Ah! Iremembered!
He stood for a moment in the doorway looking about him, and thenstrolled into the centre of the room.
"Good-morning, gentlemen," he said, with an airy condescension thatstung like an insult; "I trust you have no fault to find with thelodging our poor hospitality is able to afford you."
"Mr. Prendergast," I answered, determined to try him with the name ofthe man mentioned by my sweetheart in her letter. "What does this mean?Why have we been made prisoners like this? I demand to be released atonce. You will have to answer to our consul for this detention."
For a brief space he appeared to be dumbfounded by my knowledge of hisname. But he soon recovered himself and leaned his back against thewall, looking us both carefully over before he answered.
"I shall be only too pleased," he said sneeringly, "but if you'll allowme to say so, I don't think we need trouble about explanations yetawhile."
"Pray, what do you mean by that?"
"Exactly what I say; as you are likely to be our guests for someconsiderable time to come, there will be no need for explanation."
"You mean to keep us prisoners, then, do you? Very well, Mr.Prendergast, be assured of this, when I _do_ get loose I'll make youfeel the weight of my arm."
"I think it's very probable there will be a fight if ever we do meet,"he answered, coolly taking a cigarette from his pocket and lighting it."And it's my impression you'd be a man worth fighting, Mr. Hatteras."
"If you think my father will let me remain here very long you're muchmistaken," said Beckenham. "And as for the ransom you expect him to pay,I don't somehow fancy you'll get a halfpenny."
At the mention of the word "ransom" I noticed that a new and queerexpression came into our captor's face. He did not reply, however,except to utter his usual irritating laugh. Having done so he went tothe door and called something in Arabic. In answer a gigantic negro madehis appearance, bearing in his hands a tray on which were set two basinsof food and two large mugs of water. These were placed before us, andPrendergast bade us, if we were hungry, fall to.
"You must not imagine that we wish to starve you," he said. "Food willbe served to you twice a day. And if you want it, you can even besupplied with spirits and tobacco. Now, before I go, one word of advice.Don't indulge in any idea of escape. Communication with the outsideworld is absolutely impossible, and you will find that those collars andchains will stand a good strain before they will give way. If you behaveyourselves you will be well looked after; but if you attempt any larksyou will be confined in different rooms, and there will be a radicalchange in our behaviour."
So saying he left the room, taking the precaution to lock the doorcarefully behind him.
When we were once more alone, a long silence fell upon us. It would beidle for me to say that the generous behaviour of the young Marquis withregard to my share in this wretched business had set my mind at rest.But if it had not done that it had at least served to intensify anotherresolution. Come what might, I told myself, I would find a way ofescape, and he should be returned to his father safe and sound, if itcost me my life to do it. But how _were_, we to escape? We could notmove from our places on account of the chains that secured us to thewalls, and, though I put all my whole strength into it, I found I couldnot dislodge the staple a hundredth part of an inch from itsholding-place.
The morning wore slowly on, mid-day came and went, the afternoon draggedits dismal length, and still there was no change in our position.Towards sundown the same gigantic negro entered the room again, bringingus our evening meal. When he left we were locked up for the night, withonly the contemplation of our woes, and the companionship of themultitudes of mice that scampered about the floor, to enliven us.
The events of the next seven days are hardly worth chronicling, unlessit is to state that every morning at daylight the same cock crew and thesame dog barked, while at six o'clock the same cripple invariably madehis way down the street behind me. At eight o'clock almost to theminute, breakfast was served to us, and, just as punctually, the eveningmeal made its appearance as the sun was declining behind the oppositehouse-top. Not again did we see any sign of Mr. Prendergast, and thoughtimes out of number I tugged at my chain I was never a whit nearerloosening it than I had been on the first occasion. One after anotherplans of escape were proposed, discussed, and invariably rejected asimpracticable. So another week passed and another, until we had beenimprisoned in that loathsome place not less than twenty days. By the endof that time, as may be supposed, we were as desperate as men could wellbe. I must, however, admit that anything like the patience and pluck ofmy companion under such circumstances I had never in my life met withbefore.
One fact had repeatedly struck me as significant, and that was thecircumstance that every morning between six and half-past, as alreadynarrated, the same cripple went down the street; and in connexion withthis, within the last few days of the time, a curious coincidence hadrevealed itself to me. From the tapping of his crutches on the stones Idiscovered that while one was shod with iron, the other was not. Nowwhere and when had I noticed that peculiarity in a cripple before? ThatI had observed it somewhere I felt certain. For nearly half the day Iturned this over and over in my mind, and then, in the middle of ourevening meal, enlightenment came to me. I remembered the man whosepiteous tale had so much affected Beckenham on the day of our arrival,and the sound his crutches made upon the pavement as he left us. If mysurmise proved correct, and we could only manage to communicate withhim, here was a golden opportunity. But how were we to do this? Wediscussed it, and discussed it, times out of number, but in vain. Thathe must be stopped on his way down the street need not to be argued atall. In what way, however, could this be done? The window was out of thequestion, the door was not to be thought of; in that case the onlycommunicating place would be the small pipe by my side. But as I havealready pointed out, by reason of the elbow it would be clearlyimpossible to force a message through it. All day we devoted ourselvesto attempts to solve what seemed a hopeless difficulty. Then like aflash a brilliant inspiration burst upon me.
"By Jove, I have it!" I said, taking care to whisper lest any one mightbe listening at the door. "We must manage by hook or crook to catch amouse _and let him carry our appeal for help to the outside world_."
"A magnificent idea! If we can catch one I do believe you've saved us!"
But to catch a mouse was easier said than done. Though the room wasalive with them they were so nimble and so cunning, that, try how wewould, we could not lay hold of one. But at length my efforts wererewarded, and after a little struggle I held my precious captive in myhand. By this time another idea had come to me. If we wanted to bringNikola and his gang to justice, and to discover their reason forhatching this plot against us, it would not do to ask the public atlarge for help--and I must own, in spite of our long imprisonment, I wasweak enough to feel a curiosity as to their motive. No! It must be tothe beggar who passed the house every morning that we must appeal.
"This letter concerns you more than me," I said to my fellow-prisoner."Have you a lead pencil in your pocket?"
He had, and immediately threw it across to me. Then, taking a smallpiece of paper from my pocket, I set myself to compose the following inFrench and English, assisted by my companion:--
"If this should meet the eye of the individual to whom a youngEnglishman gave half a sovereign in charity three weeks ago, he isimplored to assist one who assisted him, and who has been imprisonedever since that day in the room with the blank wall facing the streetand the boarded-up window on the right-hand side. To do this he mustobtain a small file and discover a way to convey it into the room bymeans of the small pipe leading through the blank wall into the street;perhaps if this could be dislodged it might be pushed in through theaperture thus made. On receipt of the file an English five-pound notewill be conveyed to him in the same way as this letter, and another ifsecrecy is observed and those in the house escape."
This important epistle had hardly been concocted before the door wasunlocked and our dusky servitor entered with the evening meal. He hadlong since abandoned his first habit of bringing us our food in separatereceptacles, but conveyed it to us now in the saucepan in which it wascooked, dividing it thence into our basins. These latter, it may beinteresting to state, had not been washed since our arrival.
All the time that our jailer was in the room I held my tremblingprisoner in my hand, clinging to him as to the one thing which connectedus with liberty. But the door had no sooner closed upon him than I hadtilted out my food upon the floor and converted my basin into a trap.
It may be guessed how long that night seemed to us, and with whattrembling eagerness we awaited the first signs of breaking day. Directlyit was light I took off and unravelled one of my socks. The thread thusobtained I doubled, and having done this, secured one end of it to thenote, which I had rolled into a small compass, attaching the other to mycaptive mouse's hind leg. Then we set ourselves to wait for six o'clock.The hour came; and minute after minute went by before we heard in thedistance the tapping of the crutches on the stones. Little by little thesound grew louder, and then fainter, and when I judged he was nearly atmy back, I stooped and thrust our curious messenger into the pipe. Thenwe sat down to await the result.
As the mouse, only too glad to escape, ran into the aperture, thethread, on which our very lives depended, swiftly followed, dragging itsmessage after it. Minutes went by; half an hour; an hour; and then theremainder of the day; and still nothing came to tell us that our appealhad been successful.
That night I caught another mouse, wrote the letter again, and at sixo'clock next morning once more despatched it on its journey. Another daywent by without reply. That night we caught another, and at six-o'clocknext morning sent it off; a third, and even a fourth, followed, butstill without success. By this time the mice were almost impossible tocatch, but our wits were sharpened by despair, and we managed to hitupon a method that eventually secured for us a plentiful supply. For thesixth time the letter was written and despatched at the moment thefootsteps were coming down the street. Once more the tiny animal crawledinto the pipe, and once more the message disappeared upon its journey.
Another day was spent in anxious waiting, but this time we were notdestined to be disappointed. About eight o'clock that night, just as wewere giving up hope, I detected a faint noise near my feet; it was forall the world as if some one were forcing a stick through a hole in abrick wall. I informed Beckenham of the fact in a whisper, and then putmy head down to listen. Yes, there was the sound again. Oh, if only Ihad a match! But it was no use wishing for what was impossible, so I putmy hand down to the pipe. _It was moving!_ It turned in my hand, movedto and fro for a brief space and then disappeared from my graspentirely; next moment it had left the room. A few seconds latersomething cold was thrust into my hand, _and from its rough edge I knewit to be a file_. I drew it out as if it were made of gold and thrust itinto my pocket. A piece of string was attached to it, and the reason ofthis I was at first at some loss to account for. But a moment'sreflection told me that it was to assist in the fulfilment of our shareof the bargain. So, taking a five-pound note from the secret pocket inwhich I carried my paper money, I tied the string to it, and it wasinstantly withdrawn. A minute could not have elapsed before I was atwork upon the staple of my collar, and in less than half an hour it wasfiled through and the iron was off my neck.
If I tried for a year I could not make you understand what a relief itwas to me to stand upright. I stretched myself again and again, and thencrossed the room on tip-toe in the dark to where the Marquis lay.
"You are free," he whispered, clutching and shaking my hand. "Oh, thankGod!"
"Hush! Put down your head and let me get to work upon your collar beforeyou say anything more."
As I was able this time to get at my work standing up, it was not verylong before Beckenham was as free as I was. He rose to his feet with agreat sigh of relief, and we shook hands warmly in the dark.
"Now," I said, leading him towards the door, "we will make our escape,and I pity the man who attempts to stop us."



CHAPTER IX
DR. NIKOLA PERMITS US A FREE PASSAGE

The old saying, "Don't count your chickens before they're hatched," isas good a warning as any I know. For if we had not been so completelyoccupied filing through the staples of our collars we should not haveomitted to take into consideration the fact that, even when we shouldhave removed the chains that bound us, we would still be prisoners inthe room. I'm very much afraid, however, even had we remembered thispoint, we should only have considered it of minor importance and one tobe easily overcome. As it was, the unwelcome fact remained that the door_was_ locked, and, what was worse, that the lock itself had, forsecurity's sake, been placed on the outside, so that there was no chanceof our being able to pick it, even had our accomplishments lain in thatdirection.
"Try the window," whispered Beckenham, in answer to the heavy sigh whichfollowed my last discovery.
Accordingly we crossed the room, and I put my hands upon one of theboards and pulled. But I might as well have tried to tow a troopshipwith a piece of cotton, for all the satisfactory result I got; theplanks were trebly screwed to the window frame, and each in turn defiedme. When I was tired Beckenham put his strength to it, but even ourunited efforts were of no avail, and, panting and exhausted, we were atlength obliged to give it up as hopeless.
"This is a pretty fix we've got ourselves into," I said as soon as I hadrecovered sufficient breath to speak. "How on earth are we to escape?"
"I can't say, unless we manage to burst that door and fight our way out.I wonder if that could be done."
"First, let's look at the door."
We crossed the room again, and I examined the door carefully. It was nota very strong one; but I was sufficient of a carpenter to know that itwould withstand a good deal of pressure before it would give way.
"I've a good mind to try it," I said; "but in that case, remember, itwill probably mean a hand-to-hand fight on the other side, and, unarmedand weak as we are, we shall be pretty sure to get the worst of it."
"Never mind that," my intrepid companion replied, with a confidence inhis voice that I was very far from feeling. "In for a penny, in for apound; even if we're killed it couldn't be worse than being buriedalive."
"That's so, and if fighting's your idea, I'm your man," I answered. "Letme first take my bearings, and then I'll see what I can do against it.You get out of the way, but be sure to stand by to rush the passagedirectly the door goes."
Again I felt the door and wall in order that I might be sure where itlay, and having done so crossed the room. My heart was beating like aNasmyth hammer, and it was nearly a minute before I could pull myselftogether sufficiently for my rush. Then summoning every muscle in mybody to my assistance, I dashed across and at it with all the strengthmy frame was capable of. Considering the darkness of the room, mysteering was not so bad, for my shoulder caught the door just above itscentre; there was a great crash--a noise of breaking timbers--and amid ashower of splinters and general _débris_ I fell headlong through intothe passage. By the time it would have taken me to count five, Beckenhamwas beside me helping me to rise.
"Now stand by for big trouble!" I said, rubbing my shoulder, and everymoment expecting to see a door open and a crowd of Prendergast'sruffians come rushing out. "We shall have them on us in a minute."
But to our intense astonishment it was all dead silence. Not a sound ofany single kind, save our excited breathing, greeted our ears. We mighthave broken into an empty house for all we knew the difference.
For nearly five minutes we stood, side by side, waiting for the battlewhich did not come.
"What on earth does it mean?" I asked my companion. "That crash of minewas loud enough to wake the dead. Can they have deserted the place,think you, and left us to starve?"
"I can't make it out any more than you can," he answered. "But don't youthink we'd better take advantage of their not coming to find a way out?"
"Of course. One of us had better creep down the passage and discover howthe land lies. As I'm the stronger, I'll go. You wait here."
I crept along the passage, treading cautiously as a cat, for I knew thatboth our lives depended on it. Though it could not have been more thansixty feet, it seemed of interminable length, and was as black as night.Not a glimmer of light, however faint, met my eyes.
On and on I stole, expecting every moment to be pounced upon and seized;but no such fate awaited me. If, however, our jailers did not appear,another danger was in store for me.
In the middle of my walk my feet suddenly went from under me, and Ifound myself falling I knew not where. In reality it was only a drop ofabout three feet down a short flight of steps. Such a noise as my fallmade, however, was surely never heard, but still no sound came. ThenBeckenham fumbled his way cautiously down the steps to my side, andwhispered an inquiry as to what had happened. I told him in as few wordsas possible, and then struggled to my feet again.
Just as I did so my eyes detected a faint glimmer of light low down onthe floor ahead of us. From its position it evidently emanated from thedoorway of a room.
"Oh! if we only had a match," I whispered.
"It's no good wishing," said Beckenham. "What do you advise?"
"It's difficult to say," I answered; "but I should think we'd betterlisten at that door and try to discover if there is any one inside. Ifthere is, and he is alone, we must steal in upon him, let him see thatwe are desperate, and, willy-nilly, force him to show us a way out. It'sten chances to one, if we go on prowling about here, we shall stumbleupon the whole nest of them--then we'll be caught like rats in a trap.What do you think?"
"I agree with you. Go on."
Without further ado we crept towards the light, which, as I expected,came from under a door, and listened. Some one was plainly moving aboutinside; but though we waited for what seemed a quarter of an hour, butmust in reality have been less than a minute and a half, we could hearno voices.
"Whoever he is, he's alone--that's certain," whispered my companion."Open the door softly, and we'll creep in upon him."
In answer, and little by little, a cold shiver running down my back lestit should creak and so give warning to the person within, I turned thehandle, pushed open the door, and we looked inside. Then--but, mygracious! if I live to be a thousand I shall never forget the sight thatmet my eyes.
The room itself was a long and low one: its measurements possibly sixtyfeet by fifteen. The roof--for there was no ceiling--was of wood,crossed by heavy rafters, and much begrimed with dirt and smoke. Thefloor was of some highly polished wood closely resembling oak, and wascompletely bare. But the shape and construction of the room itself wereas nothing compared with the strangeness of its furniture and occupants.Words would fail me if I tried to give you a true and accuratedescription of it. I only know that, strong man as I was, and used tothe horrors of life and death, what I saw before me then made my bloodrun cold and my flesh creep as it had never done before.
To begin with, round the walls were arranged, at regular intervals, morethan a dozen enormous bottles, each of which contained what looked, tome, only too much like human specimens pickled in some light-colouredfluid resembling spirits of wine. Between these gigantic but more thanhorrible receptacles were numberless smaller ones, holding other andeven more dreadful remains; while on pedestals and stands, bolt uprightand reclining, were skeletons of men, monkeys, and quite a hundred sortsof animals. The intervening spaces were filled with skulls, bones, andthe apparatus for every kind of murder known to the fertile brain ofman. There were European rifles, revolvers, bayonets, and swords;Italian stilettos, Turkish scimitars, Greek knives, Central Africanspears and poisoned arrows, Zulu knobkerries, Afghan yataghans, Malaykrises, Sumatra blow-pipes, Chinese dirks, New Guinea head-catchingimplements, Australian spears and boomerangs, Polynesian stone hatchets,and numerous other weapons the names of which I cannot now remember.Mixed up with them were implements for every sort of wizardry known tothe superstitious; from old-fashioned English love charms to African Obisticks, from spiritualistic planchettes to the most horrible of Fijiandeath potions.
In the centre of the wall, opposite to where we stood, was a largefireplace of the fashion usually met with in old English manor-houses,and on either side of it a figure that nearly turned me sick withhorror. That on the right hand was apparently a native of NorthernIndia, if one might judge by his dress and complexion. He sat on thefloor in a constrained attitude, accounted for by the fact that hishead, which was at least three times too big for his body, was so heavyas to require an iron tripod with a ring or collar in the top of it tokeep it from overbalancing him and bringing him to the floor. To add tothe horror of this awful head, it was quite bald; the skin was drawntensely over the bones, and upon this veins stood out as large asmacaroni stems.
On the other side of the hearth was a creature half-ape andhalf-man--the like of which I remember once to have seen in a museum ofmonstrosities in Sydney, where, if my memory serves me, he was describedupon the catalogue as a Burmese monkey-boy. He was chained to the wallin somewhat the same fashion as we had been, and was chattering andscratching for all the world like a monkey in a Zoo.
But, horrible as these things were, the greatest surprise of all was yetto come. For, standing at the heavy oaken table in the centre of theroom, was a man I should have known anywhere if I had been permittedhalf a glance at him. _It was Dr. Nikola._
When we entered he was busily occupied with a scalpel, dissecting ananimal strangely resembling a monkey. On the table, and watching thework upon which his master was engaged, sat his constant companion, thesame fiendish black cat I have mentioned elsewhere; while at the endnearest us, standing on tip-toe, the better to see what was going on,was an albino dwarf, scarcely more than two feet eight inches high. Sostealthily, however, had our approach been made, and so carefully had Iopened the door, that we were well into the room before our appearancewas discovered, and also before I had realized into whose presence wehad stumbled. Then my foot touched a board that creaked, and Dr. Nikolalooked up from the work upon which he was engaged.
His pale, thin face did not show the slightest sign of surprise as hesaid, in his usual placid tone,--
"So you have managed to escape from your room, gentlemen. Well, and praywhat do you want?"
For a moment I was so much overcome with surprise that my tongue refusedto perform its office. Then I said, advancing towards him as I spoke,closely followed by the Marquis,--
"So, Dr. Nikola, we have met at last!"
"At last, Mr. Hatteras, as you say," this singular being replied, stillwithout showing a sign of either interest or embarrassment. "All thingsconsidered, I suppose you would deem me ironical if I ventured to saythat I am pleased to see you about again. However, don't let me keep youstanding; won't you sit down? My lord, let me offer you a chair."
All this time we were edging up alongside the table, and I was makingready for a rush at him. But he was not to be taken off his guard. Hisextraordinary eyes had been watching me intently, taking in my everymovement; and a curious effect they had upon me.
"Dr. Nikola," I said, "the game is up. You beat me last time; but nowyou must own I come out on top. Don't utter a word or call forassistance--if you do you're a dead man. Now drop that knife you hold inyour hand, and show us the way out!"
The Marquis was on his right, I was on his left, and we were close uponhim as I spoke. Still he showed no sign of fear, though he must haveknown the danger of his position. But his eyes glowed in his head likeliving coals.
You will ask why we did not rush at him? Well, if I am obliged to ownit, I must--the truth was, such was the power that emanated from thisextraordinary man, that though we both knew the crucial moment of ourenterprise had arrived, while his eyes were fixed upon us, neither of uscould stir an inch. When he spoke his voice seemed to cut like a knife.
"So you think my game is up, Mr. Hatteras, do you? I'm afraid once moreI must differ from you. Look behind you."
I did so, and that glance showed me how cleverly we'd been trapped.Leaning against the door, watching us with cruel, yet smiling eyes, wasour old enemy Prendergast, revolver in hand. Just behind me were twopowerful Soudanese, while near the Marquis was a man looking like aGreek--and a very stalwart Greek at that. Observing our discomfiture,Nikola seated himself in a big chair near the fireplace and folded hishands in the curious fashion I have before described; as he did so hisblack cat sprang to his shoulder and sat there watching us all. Dr.Nikola was the first to speak.
"Mr. Hatteras," he said, with devilish clearness and deliberation, "youshould really know me better by this time than to think you could outwitme so easily. Is my reputation after all so small? And, while I think ofit, pray let me have the pleasure of returning to you your five poundnote and your letters. Your mice were perfect messengers, were theynot?" As he spoke he handed me the selfsame Bank of England note I haddespatched through the pipe that very evening in payment for the file;then he shook from a box he had taken from the chimney-piece all thecommunications I had written imploring assistance from the outsideworld. To properly estimate my chagrin and astonishment would be verydifficult. I could only sit and stare, first at the money and then atthe letters, in blankest amazement. So we had not been rescued by thecripple after all. Was it possible that while we had been so busyarranging our escape we had in reality been all the time under theclosest surveillance? If that were so, then this knowledge of our doingswould account for the silence with which my attack upon the door hadbeen received. Now we were in an even worse position than before. Ilooked at Beckenham, but his head was down and his right hand waspicking idly at the table edge. He was evidently waiting for what wascoming next.
In sheer despair I turned to Nikola. "Since you have outwitted us again,Dr. Nikola, do not play with us--tell us straight out what our fate isto be."
"If it means going back to that room again," said Beckenham, in a voiceI hardly recognized, "I would far rather die and be done with it."
"Do not fear, my lord, you shall not die," Nikola said, turning to himwith a bow. "Believe me, you will live to enjoy many happier hours thanthose you have been compelled to spend under my roof!"
"What do you mean?"
The doctor did not answer for nearly a moment; then he took what lookedto me suspiciously like a cablegram form from his pocket and carefullyexamined it. Having done so, he said quietly,----
"Gentlemen, you ask what I mean? Well, I mean this--if you wish to leavethis house this very minute, you are free to do so on one condition!"
"And that condition is?"
"That you allow yourselves to be blindfolded in this room and conductedby my servants to the harbour side. I must furthermore ask your words ofhonour that you will not seek to remove your bandages until you aregiven permission to do so. Do you agree to this?"
Needless to say we both signified our assent.
This free permission to leave the house was a second surprise, and onefor which we were totally unprepared.
"Then let it be so. Believe me, my lord Marquis, and you, Mr. Hatteras,it is with the utmost pleasure I restore your liberty to you again!"
He made a sign to Prendergast, who instantly stepped forward. But I hadsomething to say before we were removed.
"One word first, Dr. Nikola. You have----"
"Mr. Hatteras, if you will be guided by me, you will keep a silenttongue in your head. Let well alone. Take warning by the proverb, andbeware how you disturb a sleeping dog. Why I have acted as I have donetowards you, you may some day learn; in the meantime rest assured it wasfrom no idle motive. Now take me at my word, and go while you have thechance. I may change my mind in a moment, and then----"
He stopped and did not say any more. At a sign, Prendergast clapped athick bandage over my eyes, while another man did the same forBeckenham; a man on either side of me took my arms, and next moment wehad passed out of the room, and before I could have counted fifty werein the cool air of the street.
How long we were walking, after leaving the house, I could not say, butat last our escort called a halt. Prendergast was evidently in command,for he said,--
"Gentlemen, before we leave you, you will renew your words of honour notto remove your bandages for five full minutes?"
We complied with his request, and instantly our arms were released; amoment later we heard our captors leaving us. The minutes went slowlyby. Presently Beckenham said,--
"How long do you think we've been standing here?"
"Nearly the stipulated time, I should fancy," I answered. "However, we'dbetter give them a little longer, to avoid any chance of mistake."
Again a silence fell on us. Then I tore off my bandage, to findBeckenham doing the same.
"They're gone, and we're free again," he cried. "Hurrah!"
We shook hands warmly on our escape, and having done so looked about us.A ship's bell out in the stream chimed half an hour after midnight, anda precious dark night it was. A number of vessels were to be seen, andfrom the noise that came from them it was evident they were busycoaling.
"What's to be done now?" asked Beckenham.
"Find an hotel, I think," I answered; "get a good night's rest, andfirst thing in the morning hunt up our consul and the steamshipauthorities."
"Come along, then. Let's look for a place. I noticed one that shouldsuit us close to where we came ashore that day."
Five minutes' walking brought us to the house we sought. The proprietorwas not very fastidious, and whatever he may have thought of ourappearances he took us in without demur. A bath and a good mealfollowed, and then after a thorough overhauling of all the detailsconnected with our imprisonment we turned into bed, resolved to thrashit out upon the morrow.
Next morning, true to our arrangement, as soon as breakfast was over, Iset off for the steamship company's office, leaving the Marquis behindme at the hotel for reasons which had begun to commend themselves to me,and which will be quite apparent to you.
I found the _Saratoga's_ agent hard at work in his private office. Hewas a tall, thin man, slightly bald, wearing a pair of heavy goldpince-nez, and very slow and deliberate in speech.
"I beg your pardon," he began, when I had taken possession of hisproffered chair, "but did I understand my clerk to say that your namewas Hatteras?"
"That is my name," I answered. "I was a passenger in the _Saratoga_ forAustralia three weeks ago, but had the misfortune to be left behind whenshe sailed."
"Ah! I remember the circumstances thoroughly," he said. "The youngMarquis of Beckenham went ashore with you, I think, and came within anace of being also left behind."
"Within an ace!" I cried; "but he _was_ left behind."
"No, no! there you are mistaken," was the astounding reply; "he _would_have been left behind had not his tutor and I gone ashore at the lastmoment to look for him and found him wandering about on the outskirts ofArab Town. I don't remember ever to have seen a man more angry than thetutor was, and no wonder, for they only just got out to the boat againas the gangway was being hauled aboard."
"Then you mean to tell me that the Marquis went on to Australia afterall!" I cried. "And pray how did this interesting young gentlemanexplain the fact of his losing sight of me?"
"He lost you in a crowd, he said," the agent continued. "It was a mostextraordinary business altogether."
It certainly was, and even more extraordinary than he imagined. I couldhardly believe my ears. The world seemed to be turned upside down. I wasso bewildered that I stumbled out a few lame inquiries about the nextboat sailing for Australia, and what would be done with my baggage, andthen made my way as best I could out of the office. Hastening back tothe hotel, I told my story from beginning to end to my astonishedcompanion, who sat on his bed listening open-mouthed. When I hadfinished he said feebly,--"But what does it all mean? Tell me that! Whatdoes it mean?"
"It means," I answered, "that our notion about Nikola's abducting us inorder to blackmail your father was altogether wrong, and, if you ask me,I should say not half picturesque enough. No, no! this mystery is abigger one by a hundred times than even we expected, and there are moremen in it than those we have yet seen. It remains with you to saywhether you will assist in the attempt to unravel it or not."
"What do you mean by saying it remains with me? Do I understand that youintend following it up?"
"Of course I do. Nikola and Baxter between them have completely doneme--now I'm going to do my best to do them. By Jove!"
"What is it now?"
"I see it all as plain as a pikestaff. I understand exactly now whyBaxter came for you, why he telegraphed that the train was laid, why Iwas drugged in Plymouth, why you were sea-sick between Naples and thisplace, and why we were both kidnapped!"
"Then explain, for mercy's sake!"
"I will. See here. In the first place, remember your father's peculiareducation of yourself. If you consider that, you will see that you arethe only young nobleman of high rank whose face is not well known to hisbrother peers. That being so, Nikola wants to procure you for somepurpose of his own in Australia. Your father advertises for a tutor; hesends one of his agents--Baxter--to secure the position. Baxter, atNikola's instruction, puts into your head a desire for travel. Youpester your father for the necessary permission. Just as this is grantedI come upon the scene. Baxter suspects me. He telegraphs to Nikola 'Thetrain is laid,' which means that he has begun to sow the seeds of adesire for travel, when a third party steps in--in other words, I am thenew danger that has arisen. He arranges your sailing, and all promisesto go well. Then Dr. Nikola finds out I intend going in the same boat.He tries to prevent me; and I--by Jove! I see another thing. Why didBaxter suggest that you should cross the Continent and join the boat atNaples? Why, simply because if you had started from Plymouth you wouldsoon have got over your sickness, if you had ever been ill at all, andin that case the passengers would have become thoroughly familiar withyour face by the time you reached Port Said. That would never have done,so he takes you to Naples, drugs you next morning--for you must rememberyou were ill after the coffee he gave you--and by that means kept youill and confined to your cabin throughout the entire passage to PortSaid. Then he persuades you to go ashore with me. You do so, with whatresult you know. Presently he begins to bewail your non-return, invitesthe agent to help in the search. They set off, and eventually find younear the Arab quarter. You must remember that neither the agent, thecaptain, nor the passengers have seen you, save at night, so thesubstitute, who is certain to have been well chosen and schooled for thepart he is to play, is not detected. Then the boat goes on her way,while we are left behind languishing in durance vile."
"What do you advise me to do? Remember, Baxter has letters to thedifferent Governors from my father."
"I know what I should do myself!"
"Go to the consul and get him to warn the authorities in Australia, Isuppose?"
"No. That would do little or no good--remember, they've got three weeks'start of us."
"Then what shall we do? I'm in your hands entirely, and whatever youadvise I promise you I'll do."
"If I were you I should doff my title, take another name, and set sailwith me for Australia. Once there, we'll put up in some quiet place andset ourselves to unmask these rascals and to defeat their little game,whatever it may be. Are you prepared for so much excitement as that?"
"Of course I am. Come what may, I'll go with you, and there's my hand onit."
"Then we'll catch the next boat--not a mail-steamer--that sails for anAustralian port, and once ashore there we'll set the ball a-rolling witha vengeance."
"That scoundrel Baxter! I'm not vindictive as a rule, but I feel Ishould like to punish him."
"Well, if they've not flown by the time we reach Australia, you'llprobably be able to gratify your wish. It's Nikola, however, I want."
Beckenham shuddered as I mentioned the Doctor's name. So to change thesubject I said,----
"I'm thinking of taking a little walk. Would you care to accompany me?"
"Where are you going?" he asked.
"I'm going to try and find the house where we were shut up," I answered."I want to be able to locate it for future reference, if necessary."
"Is it safe to go near it, do you think?"
"In broad daylight, yes! But, just to make sure, we'll buy a couple ofrevolvers on the way. And, what's more, if it becomes necessary, we'lluse them."
"Come along, then."
With that we left our hotel and set off in the direction of the Casino,stopping, however, on the way to make the purchases above referred to.
We passed down one thoroughfare and up another, and at last reached thespot where I had commented on the sign-boards, and where we had beengarrotted. Surely the house must be near at hand now? But though wehunted high and low, up one street and down another, not a single traceof any building answering the description of the one we wanted could wediscover. At last, after nearly an hour's search, we were obliged togive it up, and return to our hotel, unsuccessful.
As we finished lunch a large steamer made her appearance in the harbour,and brought up opposite the town. When we questioned our landlord, whowas an authority on the subject, he informed us that she was the s.s._Pescadore_, of Hull, bound to Melbourne.
Hearing this we immediately chartered a boat, pulled off to her, andinterviewed the captain. As good luck would have it, he had room for acouple of passengers. We therefore paid the passage money, went ashoreagain and provided ourselves with a few necessaries, rejoined her, andshortly before nightfall steamed into the Canal. Port Said was a thingof the past. Our eventful journey was resumed--what was the end of itall to be?



_PART II_



CHAPTER I
WE REACH AUSTRALIA, AND THE RESULT

The _Pescadore_, if she was slow, was certainly sure, and so thethirty-sixth day after our departure from Port Said, as recorded in theprevious chapter, she landed us safe and sound at Williamstown, which,as all the Australian world knows, is one of the principal railwaytermini, and within an hour's journey of Melbourne. Throughout thevoyage nothing occurred worth chronicling, if I except the curiousbehaviour of Lord Beckenham, who, for the first week or so, seemed sunkin a deep lethargy, from which neither chaff nor sympathy could rousehim. From morning till night he mooned aimlessly about the decks, hadvisibly to pull himself together to answer such questions as might beaddressed to him, and never by any chance sustained a conversationbeyond a few odd sentences. To such a pitch did this depression at lastbring him that, the day after we left Aden, I felt it my duty to takehim to task and to try to bully or coax him out of it.
"Come," I said, "I want to know what's the matter with you. You've beengiving us all the miserables lately, and from the look of your face atthe present moment I'm inclined to believe it's going to continue. Outwith it! Are you homesick, or has the monotony of this voyage been toomuch for you?"
He looked into my face rather anxiously, I thought, and then said: "Mr.Hatteras, I'm afraid you'll think me an awful idiot when I _do_ tellyou, but the truth is I've got Dr. Nikola's face on my brain, and dowhat I will I cannot rid myself of it. Those great, searching eyes, aswe saw them in that terrible room, have got on my nerves, and I canthink of nothing else. They haunt me night and day!"
"Oh, that's all fancy!" I cried. "Why on earth should you be frightenedof him? Nikola, in spite of his demoniacal cleverness, is only a man,and even then you may consider that we've seen the last of him. So cheerup, take as much exercise as you possibly can, and believe me, you'llsoon forget all about him."
But it was no use arguing with him. Nikola had had an effect upon theyouth that was little short of marvellous, and it was not until we hadwell turned the Leuwin, and were safely in Australian waters, that he inany way recovered his former spirits.
And here, lest you should give me credit for a bravery I did notpossess, I must own that I was more than a little afraid of anothermeeting with Nikola, myself. I had had four opportunities afforded me ofjudging of his cleverness--once in the restaurant off Oxford Street,once in the _Green Sailor_ public-house in the East India Dock Road,once in the West of England express, and lastly, in the house in PortSaid. I had no desire, therefore, to come to close quarters with himagain.
Arriving in Melbourne we caught the afternoon express for Sydney,reaching that city the following morning a little after breakfast. Bythe time we had arrived at our destination we had held manyconsultations over our future, and the result was a decision to look fora quiet hotel on the outskirts of the city, and then to attempt todiscover what the mystery, in which we had been so deeply involved,might mean. The merits of all the various suburbs were severallydiscussed, though I knew but little about them, and the Marquis less.Paramatta, Penrith, Woolahra, Balmain, and even many of the bays andharbours, received attention, until we decided on the last named as themost likely place to answer our purpose.
This settled, we crossed Darling harbour, and, after a little huntingabout, discovered a small but comfortable hotel situated in a sidestreet, called the _General Officer_. Here we booked rooms, depositedour meagre baggage, and having installed ourselves, sat down anddiscussed the situation.
"So this is Sydney," said Beckenham, stretching himself out comfortablyupon the sofa as he spoke. "And now that we've got here, what's to bedone first?"
"Have lunch," I answered promptly.
"And then?" he continued.
"Hunt up the public library and take a glimpse of the _Morning Herald's_back numbers. They will tell us a good deal, though not all we want toknow. Then we'll make a few inquiries. To-morrow morning I shall ask youto excuse me for a couple of hours. But in the afternoon we ought tohave acquired sufficient information to enable us to make a definitestart."
"Then let's have lunch at once and be off. I'm all eagerness to get towork."
We accordingly ordered lunch, and, when it was finished, set off insearch of a public library. Having found it--and it was not a verydifficult matter--we sought the reading room and made for a stand of_Sydney Morning Heralds_ in the corner. Somehow I felt as certain offinding what I wanted there as any man could possibly be, and as ithappened I was not disappointed. On the second page, beneath a headingin bold type, was a long report of a horse show, held the previousafternoon, at which it appeared a large vice-regal and fashionable partywere present. The list included His Excellency the Governor and theCountess of Amberley, the Ladies Maud and Ermyntrude, their daughters,the Marquis of Beckenham, Captain Barrenden, an aide-de-camp, and Mr.Baxter. In a voice that I hardly recognized as my own, so shaken was itwith excitement, I called Beckenham to my side and pointed out to himhis name. He stared, looked away, then stared again, hardly able tobelieve his eyes.
"What does it mean?" he whispered, just as he had done in Port Said."What does it mean?"
I led him out of the building before I answered, and then clapped him onthe shoulder. "It means, my boy," I said, "that there's been a hitch intheir arrangements, and that we're not too late to circumvent them afterall."
"But where do you think they are staying--these two scoundrels?"
"At Government House, to be sure. Didn't you see that the report said,'The Earl and Countess of Amberley and a distinguished party fromGovernment House, including the Marquis of Beckenham,' etc.?"
"Then let us go to Government House at once and unmask them. That is ourbounden duty to society."
"Then all I can say is, if it is our duty to society, society will haveto wait. No, no! We must find out first what their little game is. Thatonce decided, the unmasking will fall in as a natural consequence. Don'tyou understand?"
"I am afraid I don't quite. However, I expect you're right."
By this time we were back again at the ferry. It was not time for theboat to start, so while we waited we amused ourselves staring at theplacards pasted about on the wharf hoardings. Then a large theatricalposter caught my eye and drew me towards it. It announced a grandvice-regal "command" night at one of the principal theatres for thatvery evening, and further set forth the fact that the most noble theMarquis of Beckenham would be amongst the distinguished company.
"Here we are," I called to my companion, who was at a little distance."We'll certainly go to this. The Marquis of Beckenham shall honour itwith his patronage and presence after all."
We went back to our hotel for dinner, and as soon as it was eatenreturned to the city to seek the theatre.
When we entered it the building was crowded, and the arrival of theGovernment House party was momentarily expected. Presently the Governorand a brilliant party entered the vice-regal box. You may be sure of allthat vast concourse of people there were none who stared harder thenBeckenham and myself. And it was certainly enough to make any man stare,for there, sitting on her ladyship's right hand, faultlessly dressed,was the exact image of the young man by my side. The likeness was soextraordinary that for a moment I could hardly believe that Beckenhamhad not left me to go up and take his seat there. And if I was struck bythe resemblance, you may be sure that he was a dozen times more so.Indeed, his bewilderment was most comical, and must have struck thosepeople round us, who were watching, as something altogetherextraordinary. I looked again, and could just discern behind the frontrow the smug, self-satisfied face of the tutor Baxter. Then the playcommenced, and we were compelled to turn and give it our attention.
Here I must stop to chronicle one circumstance that throughout the dayhad struck me as peculiar. When our vessel arrived at Williamstown, itso happened that we had travelled up in the train to Melbourne with atall, handsome, well-dressed man of about thirty years of age. Whetherhe, like ourselves, was a new arrival in the Colony, and only passingthrough Melbourne, I cannot say; at any rate he went on to Sydney in themail train with us. Then we lost sight of him, only to find him standingnear the public library when we had emerged from it that afternoon, andnow here he was sitting in the stalls of the theatre not half a dozenchairs from us. Whether this continual companionship was designed oronly accidental, I could not of course say, but I must own that I didnot like the look of it. Could it be possible, I asked myself, thatNikola, learning our departure for Australia in the _Pescadore_, hadcabled from Port Said to this man to watch us?
The performance over, we left the theatre, and set off for the ferry,only reaching it just as the boat was casting off. As it was I had tojump for it, and on reaching the deck should have fallen in a heap butfor a helping hand that was stretched out to me. I looked up to tendermy thanks, when to my surprise I discovered that my benefactor was noneother than the man to whom I have just been referring. His surprise waseven greater than mine, and muttering something about "a close shave,"he turned and walked quickly aft. My mind was now made up, and Iaccordingly reported my discovery to Beckenham, pointing out the man andwarning him to watch for him when he was abroad without me. This hepromised to do.
Next morning I donned my best attire (my luggage having safely arrived),and shortly before eleven o'clock bade Beckenham good-bye and betookmyself to Potts Point to call upon the Wetherells.
It would be impossible for me to say with what varied emotions I trodthat well-remembered street, crossed the garden, and approached theponderous front door, which somehow had always seemed to me so typicalof Mr. Wetherell himself. The same butler who had opened the door to meon the previous occasion opened it now, and when I asked if MissWetherell were at home, he gravely answered, "Yes, sir," and invited meto enter.
I was shown into the drawing-room--a large double chamber beautifullyfurnished and possessing an elegantly painted ceiling--while the butlerwent in search of his mistress. A few moments later I heard a lightfootstep outside, a hand was placed upon the handle of the door, andbefore I could have counted ten, Phyllis--my Phyllis!--was in the roomand in my arms! Over the next five minutes, gentle reader, we will drawa curtain with your kind permission. If you have ever met yoursweetheart after an absence of several months, you will readilyunderstand why!
When we had become rational again I led her to a sofa, and, seatingmyself beside her, asked if her father had in any way relented. At thisshe looked very unhappy, and for a moment I thought was going to burstinto tears.
"Why! What is the matter, Phyllis, my darling?" I cried in sincerealarm. "What is troubling you?"
"Oh, I am so unhappy," she replied. "Dick, there is a gentleman inSydney now to whom papa has taken an enormous fancy, and he is exertingall his influence over me to induce me to marry him."
"The deuce he is, and pray who may----" but I got no farther in myinquiries, for at that moment I caught the sound of a footstep in thehall, and next moment Mr. Wetherell opened the door. He remained for abrief period looking from one to the other of us without speaking, thenhe advanced, saying, "Mr. Hatteras, please be so good as to tell me whenthis persecution will cease? Am I not even to be free of you in my ownhouse. Flesh and blood won't stand it, I tell you, sir--won't stand it!You pursued my daughter to England in a most ungentlemanly fashion, andnow you have followed her out here again."
"Just as I shall continue to follow her all my life, Mr. Wetherell," Ireplied warmly, "wherever you may take her. I told you on board the_Orizaba_, months ago, that I loved her: well, I love her ten thousandtimes more now. She loves me--won't you hear her tell you so? Why thenshould you endeavour to keep us apart?"
"Because an alliance with you, sir, is distasteful to me in everypossible way. I have other views for my daughter, you must learn." HerePhyllis could keep silence no longer, and broke in with--"If you mean bythat that you will force me into this hateful marriage with a man Idespise, papa, you are mistaken. I will marry no one but Mr. Hatteras,and so I warn you."
"Silence, Miss! How dare you adopt that tone with me! You will do as Iwish in this and all other matters, and so we'll have no more talk aboutit. Now, Mr. Hatteras, you have heard what I have to say, and I warn youthat, if you persist in this conduct, I'll see if something can't befound in the law to put a stop to it. Meanwhile, if you show yourself inmy grounds again, I'll have my servants throw you out into the street!Good-day."
Unjust as his conduct was to me, there was nothing for it but to submit,so picking up my hat I bade poor little frightened Phyllis farewell, andwent towards the door. But before taking my departure I was determinedto have one final shot at her irascible parent, so I said, "Mr.Wetherell, I have warned you before, and I do so again: your daughterloves me, and, come what may, I will make her my wife. She is her ownmistress, and you cannot force her into marrying any one against herwill. Neither can you prevent her marrying me if she wishes it. You willbe sorry some day that you have behaved like this to me."
But the only answer he vouchsafed was a stormy one. "Leave my house thisinstant," he said. "Not another word, sir, or I'll call my servants tomy assistance!"
The stately old butler opened the front door for me, and assuming asdignified an air as was possible, I went down the drive and passed outinto the street.
When I reached home again Beckenham was out, for which I was not sorry,as I wanted to have a good quiet think by myself. So lighting a cigar, Ipulled a chair into the verandah and fell to work. But I could makenothing of the situation, save that, by my interview this morning, myposition with the father was, if possible, rendered even more hopelessthan before. Who was this more fortunate suitor? Would it be any use mygoing to him and--but no, that was clearly impossible. Could I inducePhyllis to run away with me? That was possible, of course, but I ratherdoubted if she would care to take such an extreme step until every othermeans had proved unsuccessful. Then what was to be done? I began to wishthat Beckenham would return in order that we might consult together.
Half an hour later our lunch was ready, but still no sign came of theyouth. Where could he have got to? I waited an hour and then fell towork. Three o'clock arrived and still no sign--four, five, and even six.By this time I was in a fever of anxiety. I remembered the existence ofthe man who had followed us from Melbourne, and Beckenham's trustinggood nature. Then and there I resolved, if he did not return beforehalf-past seven, to set off for the nearest police-station and have asearch made for him. Slowly the large hand of the clock went round, andwhen, at the time stated, he had not appeared, I donned my hat and,inquiring the way, set off for the home of the law.
On arriving there and stating my business I was immediately conducted tothe inspector in charge, who questioned me very closely as toBeckenham's appearance, age, profession, etc. Having done this, hesaid:--
"But what reason have you, sir, for supposing that the young man hasbeen done away with? He has only been absent from his abode, accordingto your statement, about eight or nine hours."
"Simply because," I answered, "I have the best of reasons for knowingthat ever since his arrival in Australia he has been shadowed. Thismorning he said he would only go for a short stroll before lunch, and Iam positively certain, knowing my anxiety about him, he would not haveremained away so long of his own accord without communicating with me."
"Is there any motive you can assign for this shadowing?"
"My friend is heir to an enormous property in England. Perhaps that mayassist you in discovering one?"
"Very possibly. But still I am inclined to think you are a little hastyin coming to so terrible a conclusion, Mr. ----?"
"Hatteras is my name, and I am staying at the _General Officer Hotel_ inPalgrave Street."
"Well, Mr. Hatteras, if I were you I would go back to your hotel. Youwill probably find your friend there eating his dinner and thinkingabout instituting a search for you. If, however, he has not turned up,and does not do so by to-morrow morning, call here again and report thematter, and I will give you every assistance."
Thanking him for his courtesy I left the station and walked quickly backto the hotel, hoping to find Beckenham safely returned and at hisdinner. But when the landlady met me in the verandah, and asked if I hadany news of my friend, I realized that a disappointment was in store forme. By this time the excitement and worry were getting too much for me.What with Nikola, the spy, Beckenham, Phyllis, the unknown lover, andold Mr. Wetherell, I had more than enough to keep my brain occupied. Isat down on a chair on the verandah with a sigh and reviewed the wholecase. Nine o'clock struck by the time my reverie was finished. Just as Idid so a newspaper boy came down the street lustily crying his wares. Todivert my mind from its unpleasant thoughts, I called him up and boughtan _Evening Mercury_. Having done so I passed into my sitting-room toread it. The first, second, and third pages held nothing of muchinterest to me, but on the fourth was an item which was astonishingenough to almost make my hair stand on end. It ran as follows:
     IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENT IN HIGH LIFE.
     We have it on the very best authority that an engagement will     shortly be announced between a certain illustrious young nobleman,     now a visitor in our city, and the beautiful daughter of one of     Sydney's most prominent politicians, who has lately returned from a     visit to England. The _Evening Mercury_ tenders the young couple     their sincerest congratulations.
_Could this be the solution of the whole mystery?_ Could it be that theengagement of Baxter, the telegram, the idea of travel, the drugging,the imprisonment in Port Said, the substitution of the false marquis,were all means to this end? Was is possible that this man, who wasmasquerading as a man of title, was to marry Phyllis (for there could beno possible doubt as to the person to whom that paragraph referred)? Thevery thought of such a thing was not to be endured.
There must be no delay now, I told myself, in revealing all I knew. Thevillains must be unmasked this very night. Wetherell should know all assoon as I could tell him. As I came to this conclusion I crushed mypaper into my pocket and set off, without a moment's delay, for PottsPoint. The night was dark, and now a thick drizzle was falling.
Though it really did not take me very long, it seemed an eternity beforeI reached the house and rang the bell. The butler opened the door, andwas evidently surprised to see me. "Is Mr. Wetherell at home?" I asked.
For a moment he looked doubtful as to what he should say, thencompromising matters, answered that he would see.
"I know what that means," I said in reply. "Mr. Wetherell is in, but youdon't think he'll see me. But he must! I have news for him of the veryutmost importance. Will you tell him that?"
He left me and went along the hall and upstairs. Presently he returned,shaking his head.
"I am very sorry, sir, but Mr. Wetherell's answer is, if you haveanything to tell him you must put it in writing; he cannot see you."
"But he must! In this case I can accept no refusal. Tell him, will you,that the matter upon which I wish to speak to him has nothing whatsoeverto do with the request I made to him this morning. I pledge him my wordon that."
Again the butler departed, and once more I was left to cool my heels inthe portico. When he returned it was with a smile upon his face. "Mr.Wetherell will be glad if you will step this way, sir."
I followed him along the hall and up the massive stone staircase.Arriving at the top he opened a door on the left-hand side and announced"Mr. Hatteras."
I found Mr. Wetherell seated in a low chair opposite the fire, and fromthe fact that his right foot was resting on a sort of small trestle, Iargued that he was suffering from an attack of his old enemy the gout.
"Be good enough to take a chair, Mr. Hatteras," he said, when the doorhad been closed. "I must own I am quite at a loss to understand what youcan have to tell me of so much importance as to bring you to my house atthis time of night."
"I think I shall be able to satisfy you on that score, Mr. Wetherell," Ireplied, taking the _Evening Mercury_ from my pocket and smoothing itout. "In the first place, will you be good enough to tell me if there isany truth in the inference contained in that paragraph."
I handed the paper to him and pointed to the lines in question. Havingput on his glasses he examined it carefully. "I am sorry they shouldhave made it public so soon, I must admit," he said. "But I don't denythat there is a considerable amount of truth in what that paragraphreports."
"You mean by that that you intend to try and marry Phyllis to theMarquis of Beckenham?"
"The young man has paid her a very considerable amount of attention eversince he arrived in the colony, and only last week he did me the honourof confiding his views to me. You see I am candid with you."
"I thank you for it. I, too, will be candid with you. Mr. Wetherell, youmay set your mind at rest at once, this marriage will never take place!"
"And pray be so good as to tell me your reason for such a statement?"
"If you want it bluntly, because the young man now staying at GovernmentHouse is no more the Marquis of Beckenham than I am. He is a fraud, animpostor, a cheat of the first water, put up to play his part by one ofthe cleverest scoundrels unhung."
"Mr. Hatteras, this is really going too far. I can quite understand yourbeing jealous of his lordship, but I cannot understand your having theaudacity to bring such a foolish charge against him. I, for one, mustdecline to listen to it. If he had been the fraud you make him out, howwould his tutor have got those letters from his Grace the Duke ofGlenbarth? Do you imagine his Excellency the Governor, who has known thefamily all his life, would not have discovered him ere this? No, no,sir! It won't do! If you think so, who has schooled him so cleverly? Whohas pulled the strings so wonderfully?"
"Why, Nikola, to be sure!"
Had I clapped a revolver to the old gentleman's head, or had the wallsopened and Nikola himself stepped into the room, a greater effect ofterror and consternation could not have been produced in the oldgentleman's face than did those five simple words. He fell back in hischair gasping for breath, his complexion became ashen in its pallor, andfor a moment his whole nervous system seemed unstrung. I sprang to hisassistance, thinking he was going to have a fit, but he waived me off,and when he had recovered himself sufficiently to speak, saidhoarsely--"What do you know of Dr. Nikola? Tell me, for God'ssake!--what do you know of him? Quick, quick!"
Thereupon I set to work and told him my story, from the day of myarrival in Sydney from Thursday Island up to the moment of my reachinghis house, described my meeting and acquaintance with the realBeckenham, and all the events consequent upon it. He listened, with anawful terror growing in his face, and when I had finished my narrativewith the disappearance of my friend he nearly choked.
"Mr. Hatteras," he gasped, "will you swear this is the truth you aretelling me?"
"I solemnly swear it," I answered. "And will do so in public when andwhere you please."
"Then before I do anything else I will beg your pardon for my conduct toyou. You have taken a noble revenge. I cannot thank you sufficiently.But there is not a moment to lose. My daughter is at a ball atGovernment House at the present moment. I should have accompanied her,but my gout would not permit me. Will you oblige me by ringing thatbell?"
I rang the bell as requested, and then asked what he intended doing.
"Going off to his Excellency at once, gout or no gout, and telling himwhat you have told me. If it is as you have said, we must catch thesescoundrels and rescue your friend without an instant's delay!"
Half an hour later we were at Government House waiting in hisExcellency's study for an interview. The music of the orchestra in theball-room came faintly in to us, and when Lord Amberley entered the roomhe seemed surprised, as well he might be, to see us. But as soon as hehad heard what we had to tell him his expression changed. "Mr.Wetherell, this is a very terrible charge you bring against my guest. Doyou think it can possibly be true?"
"I sadly fear so," said Mr. Wetherell. "But perhaps Mr. Hatteras willtell you the story as he told it to me."
I did so, and, when I had finished, the Governor went to the door andcalled a servant.
"Find Lord Beckenham, Johnson, at once, and ask him to be so good as tocome to me here. Stay--on second thoughts I'll go and look for himmyself."
He went off, leaving us alone again to listen to the ticking of theclock upon the mantelpiece, and to wonder what was going to happen next.Five minutes went by and then ten, but still he did not return. When hedid so it was with a still more serious countenance.
"You are evidently right, gentlemen. Neither the spurious marquis, norhis tutor, Mr. Baxter, can be found anywhere. I have discovered, too,that all their valuables and light luggage have been smuggled out of thehouse to-night without the knowledge of my servants. This is a terriblebusiness. But I have given instructions, and the police will becommunicated with at once. Now we must do our best to find the realBeckenham."
"Lord Amberley," said Wetherell, in a choking voice, "do you think oneof your servants could tell my daughter to come to me at once? I am notfeeling very well."
The Governor hesitated a moment, and then said--
"I am sorry to say, Mr. Wetherell, your daughter left the House an hourago. A message was brought to her that you had been suddenly taken illand needed her. She went off at once."
Wetherell's anxiety was piteous to see.
"My God!" he cried in despair. "If that is so, I am ruined. This isNikola's revenge."
Then he uttered a curious little sigh, moved a step forward, and fell ina dead faint upon the floor.



CHAPTER II
ON THE TRAIL

As soon as Wetherell was able to speak again he said as feebly as an oldman of ninety, "Take me home, Mr. Hatteras, take me home, and let usthink out together what is best to be done to rescue my poor child."
The Governor rose to his feet and gave him his arm.
"I think you're right, Mr. Wetherell," he said. "It is of course justprobable that you will find your daughter at her home when you arrive.God grant she may be! But in case she is not I will communicate all Iknow to the Police Commissioner on his arrival, and send him and hisofficers on to you. We must lose no time if we wish to catch thesescoundrels." Then turning to me, he continued: "Mr. Hatteras, it isowing to your promptness that we are able to take such early steps. Ishall depend upon your further assistance in this matter."
"You may do so with perfect confidence," I answered. "If you knew allyou would understand that I am more anxious perhaps than any one todiscover the whereabouts of the young lady and my unfortunate friend."
Next moment we were being whirled down the drive at a pace which at anyother time I should have thought dangerous. Throughout the journey wesat almost silent, wrapped in our anxieties and forebodings; hopingalmost against hope that when we arrived at Potts Point we should findPhyllis awaiting us there. At last we turned into the grounds, and onreaching the house I sprang out and rang the bell, then I went down tohelp my companion to alight. The butler opened the door and descendedthe steps to take the rugs. Wetherell stopped him almost angrily,crying:
"Where is your mistress? Has she come home?"
The expression of surprise on the man's face told me, before he had timeto utter a word, that our hopes were not to be realized. "Miss Phyllis,sir?" the man said. "Why, she's at the ball."
Wetherell turned from him with a deep sigh, and taking my arm wentheavily up the steps into the hall.
"Come to my study, Mr. Hatteras," he said, "and let me confer with you.For God's sake don't desert me in my hour of need!"
"You need have no fear of that," I answered. "If it is bad for you,think what it is for me." And then we went upstairs together.
Reaching his study, Mr. Wetherell led the way in and sat down. I wentacross to the hearthrug and stood before him. "Now," I said, "we mustthink this out from the very beginning, and to do that properly we mustconsider every detail. Have you any objection to answering myquestions?"
"Ask any questions you like," he replied, "and I will answer them."
"In the first place, then, how soon after his arrival in the colony didyour daughter get to know that sham Beckenham?"
"Three days," he answered.
"At a dance, dinner party, picnic, or what?"
"At none of these things. The young man, it appears, had seen mydaughter in the street, and having been struck with her beauty asked oneof the aides-de-camp at Government House, with whom we are on intimateterms, to bring him to call. At the time, I remember, I thought it aparticularly friendly action on his part."
"I don't doubt it," I answered. "Well that, I think, should tell us onething."
"And what is that?"
"That his instructions were to get to know your daughter without delay."
"But what could his reason have been?"
"Ah, that I cannot tell you just yet. Now you must pardon what I amgoing to say: do you think he was serious in his intentions regardingPhyllis--I mean your daughter?"
"Perfectly, as far as I could tell. His desire, he said, was, if shewould have him, to be allowed to marry her on his twenty-first birthday,which would be next week, and in proof of permission he showed me acablegram from his father."
"A forgery, I don't doubt. Well, then, the only construction I can putupon it is that the arrival of the real Beckenham in Sydney must havefrightened him, thus compelling the gang to resort to other means ofobtaining possession of her at once. Now our next business must be tofind out how that dastardly act was accomplished. May I ring the belland have up the coachman who drove your daughter to the ball?"
"By all means. Please act in every way in this matter as if this housewere your own."
I rang the bell, and when the butler appeared to answer it Mr. Wetherellinstructed him to find the man I wanted and send him up. The servantleft the room again, and for five minutes we awaited his reappearance insilence. When he did come back he said, "Thompson has not come home yet,sir."
"Not come home yet! Why, it's nearly eleven o'clock! Send him indirectly he arrives. Hark! What bell is that?"
"Front door, sir."
"Go down and answer it then, and if it should be the Commissioner ofPolice show him up here at once."
As it turned out it was not the Commissioner of Police, but anInspector.
"Good-evening," said Mr. Wetherell. "You have come from GovernmentHouse, I presume?"
"Exactly so, sir," replied the Inspector. "His Excellency gave us someparticulars and then sent us on."
"You know the nature of the case?"
"His Excellency informed us himself."
"And what steps have you taken?"
"Well, sir, to begin with, we have given orders for a thorough searchthroughout the city and suburbs for the tutor and the sham nobleman, atthe same time more men are out looking for the real Lord Beckenham. Weare also trying to find your coachman, who was supposed to have drivenMiss Wetherell away from Government House, and also the carriage, whichis certain to be found before very long."
He had hardly finished speaking before there was another loud ring atthe bell, and presently the butler entered once more. Crossing to Mr.Wetherell, he said--
"Two policemen are at the front door, and they have brought Thompsonhome, sir."
"Ah! We are likely to have a little light thrown upon the matter now.Let them bring him up here."
"He's not in a very nice state, sir."
"Never mind that. Bring him up here, instantly!"
Again the butler departed, and a few moments later heavy footstepsascended the stairs and approached the study door. Then two stalwartpolicemen entered the room supporting between them a miserable figure incoachman's livery. His hat and coat were gone and his breeches werestained with mud, while a large bruise totally obscured his left eye.
"Stand him over there opposite me," said Mr. Wetherell, pointing to theside of the room furthest from the door. The policemen did as they wereordered, while the man looked more dead than alive.
"Now, Thompson," said Wetherell, looking sternly at him, "what have yougot to say for yourself?"
But the man only groaned. Seeing that in his present state he could saynothing, I went across to the table and mixed him a glass of grog. WhenI gave it to him he drank it eagerly. It seemed to sharpen his wits, forhe answered instantly--
"It wasn't my fault, sir. If I'd only ha' known what their game was I'dhave been killed afore I'd have let them do anything to hurt the younglady. But they was too cunnin' for me, sir."
"Be more explicit, sir!" said Wetherell sternly. "Don't stand therewhining, but tell your story straight-forwardly and at once."
The poor wretch pulled himself together and did his best. "It was inthis way, sir," he began. "Last week I was introduced by a friend ofmine to as nice a spoken man as ever I saw. He was from England, he saidand having a little money thought he'd like to try his 'and at a bit o'racing in Australia, like. He was on the look-out for a smart man, hesaid, who'd be able to put him up to a wrinkle or two, and maybe trainfor him later on. He went on to say that he'd 'eard a lot about me, andthought I was just the man for his money. Well, we got more and morefriendly till the other night, Monday, when he said as how he'd settledon a farm a bit out in the country, and was going to sign the agreement,as they called it, for to rent it next day. He was goin' to start a studfarm and trainin' establishment combined, and would I take the billet ofmanager at three 'undred a year? Anyway, as he said, 'Don't be in a'urry to decide; take your time and think it over. Meet me at the_Canary Bird 'Otel_ on Thursday night (that's to-night, sir) and give meyour decision.' Well, sir, I drove Miss Wetherell to Government 'Ouse,sir, according to orders, and then, comin' 'ome, went round by the_Canary Bird_, to give 'im my answer, thinkin' no 'arm could ever comeof it. When I drove up he was standin' at the door smoking his cigar,an' bein' an affable sort of fellow, invited me inside to take a drink.'I don't like to leave the box,' I said. 'Oh, never mind your horse,'says he. ''Ere's a man as will stand by it for five minutes.' He gave arespectable lookin' chap, alongside the lamp-post, a sixpence, and he'eld the 'orse; so in I went. When we got inside I was for goin' to thebar, but 'e says, 'No. This is an important business matter, and wedon't want to be over'eard.' With that he leads the way into a privateroom at the end of the passage and shuts the door. 'What's yours?' sayshe. 'A nobbler o' rum,' says I. Then he orders a nobbler of rum for meand a nobbler of whisky for 'imself. And when it was brought we sattalkin' of the place he'd thought o' takin' an' the 'orses he was goin'to buy, an' then 'e says, ''Ullo! Somebody listenin' at the door. I'eard a step. Jump up and look.' I got up and ran to the door, but therewas nobody there, so I sat down again and we went on talking. Then hesays, takin' up his glass: ''Ere's to your 'ealth, Mr. Thompson, andsuccess to the farm.' We both drank it an' went on talkin' till I feltthat sleepy I didn't know what to do. Then I dropped off, an' after thatI don't remember nothin' of what 'appened till I woke up in the Domain,without my hat and coat, and found a policeman shakin' me by theshoulder."
"The whole thing is as plain as daylight," cried Wetherell bitterly. "Itis a thoroughly organized conspiracy, having me for its victim. Oh, mypoor little girlie! What has my obstinacy brought you to!"
Seeing the old man in this state very nearly broke me down, but Imastered myself with an effort and addressed a question to theunfortunate coachman--
"Pull yourself together, Thompson, and tell me as correctly as you canwhat this friend of yours was like."
I fully expected to hear him give an exact description of the man whohad followed us from Melbourne, but I was mistaken.
"I don't know, sir," said Thompson, "as I could rightly tell you, mymind being still a bit dizzy-like. He was tall, but not by any manner ofmeans big made; he had very small 'ands 'an feet, a sort o' what theycall death's-'ead complexion; 'is 'air was black as soot, an' so was 'iseyes, an' they sparkled like two diamonds."
"Do you remember noticing if he had a curious gold ring on his littlefinger, like a snake?"
"He had, sir, with two eyes made of some black stone. That's just astrue as you're born."
"Then it was Nikola," I cried in an outburst of astonishment, "and hefollowed us to Australia after all!"
Wetherell gave a deep sigh that was more like a groan than anything;then he became suddenly a new man.
"Mr. Inspector," he cried to the police officer, "that man, or traces ofhim, must be found before daylight. I know him, and he is as slippery asan eel; if you lose a minute he'll be through your fingers."
"One moment first," I cried. "Tell me this, Thompson: when you drove upto the _Canary Bird Hotel_ where did you say this man was standing?"
"In the verandah, sir."
"Had he his hat on?"
"Yes, sir."
"And then you went towards the bar, but it was crowded, so he took youto a private room?"
"Yes, sir."
"And once there he began giving you the details of this farm he proposedstarting. Did he work out any figures on paper?"
"Yes, sir."
"On what?"
"On a letter or envelope; I'm not certain which."
"Which of course he took from his pocket?"
"Yes, sir."
"Very good," I said. Then turning to the police officer, "Now, Mr.Inspector, shall we be off to the _Canary Bird_?"
"If you wish it, sir. In the meantime I'll send instructions back bythese men to the different stations. Before breakfast time we must havethe man who held the horse."
"You don't know him, I suppose?" I asked Thompson.
"No, sir; but I've seen him before," he answered.
"He's a Sydney fellow, then?"
"Oh yes, sir."
"Then there should be no difficulty in catching him. Now let us begoing."
Mr. Wetherell rose to accompany us, but hard though it was to stop him Ieventually succeeded in dissuading him from such a course.
"But you will let me know directly you discover anything, won't you, Mr.Hatteras?" he cried as we were about to leave the room. "Think of myanxiety."
I gave my promise and then, accompanied by the Inspector, left thehouse. Hailing a passing cab we jumped into it and told the driver toproceed as fast as he could to the hotel in question. Just as we starteda clock in the neighbourhood struck twelve. Phyllis had been in Nikola'shands three hours.
Pulling up opposite the _Canary Bird_ (the place where the coachman hadbeen drugged), we jumped out and bade the cabman wait. The hotel was incomplete darkness, and it was not until we had pealed the bell twicethat we succeeded in producing any sign of life. Then the landlord, halfdressed, carrying a candle in his hand, came downstairs and called outto know who was there and what we wanted. My companion immediately said"Police," and in answer to that magic word the door was unbarred.
"Good-evening, Mr. Bartrell," said the Inspector. "May we come in for amoment on business?"
"Certainly, Mr. Inspector," said the landlord, who evidently knew mycompanion. "But isn't this rather late for a call. I hope there isnothing the matter?"
"Nothing much," returned the Inspector: "only we want to make a fewinquiries about a man who was here to-night, and for whom we arelooking."
"If that is so I'm afraid I must call my barman. I was not in the barthis evening. If you'll excuse me I'll go and bring him down. In themeantime make yourselves comfortable."
He left us to kick our heels in the hall while he went upstairs again.In about ten minutes, and just as my all-consuming impatience waswell-nigh getting the better of me, he returned, bringing with him thesleepy barman.
"These gentlemen want some information about a man who was hereto-night," the landlord said by way of introduction. "Perhaps you cangive it?"
"What was he like, sir?" asked the barman of the Inspector. The latter,however, turned to me.
"Tall, slim, with a sallow complexion," I said, "black hair and verydark restless eyes. He came in here with the Hon. Sylvester Wetherell'scoachman."
The man seemed to recollect him at once.
"I remember him," he said. "They sat in No. 5 down the passage there,and the man you mention ordered a nobbler of rum and a whisky."
"That's the fellow we want," said the Inspector. "Now tell me this, haveyou ever seen him in here before?"
"Never once," said the barman, "and that's a solemn fact, because if Ihad I couldn't have forgotten it. His figure-head wouldn't let you dothat. No, sir, to-night was the first night he's ever been in the_Canary Bird_."
"Did any one else visit them while they were in the room together?"
"Not as I know of. But stay, I'm not so certain. Yes; I remember seeinga tall, good-looking chap come down the passage and go in there. But itwas some time, half an hour maybe, after I took in the drinks."
"Did you see him come out again?"
"No. But I know the coachman got very drunk, and had to be carried outto the carriage."
"How do you know that?"
"Because I saw the other two doing it."
The Inspector turned to me.
"Not very satisfactory, is it?"
"No," I answered. "But do you mind letting us look into No. 5--the roomthey occupied?"
"Not at all," said the landlord. "Come with me."
So saying he led the way down the passage to a little room on theright-hand side, the door of which he threw open with a theatricalflourish. It was in pitch darkness, but a few seconds later the gas waslit and we could see all that it contained. A small table stood in thecentre of the room, and round the walls were ranged two or three woodenchairs. A small window was at the further end and a fireplace oppositethe door. On the table was a half-smoked cigar and a torn copy of the_Evening Mercury_. But that was not what I wanted, so I went down on myhands and knees and looked about upon the floor. Presently I descried asmall ball of paper near the grate. Picking it up I seated myself at thetable and turned to the barman, who was watching my movementsattentively.
"Was this room used by any other people after the party we are lookingfor left?"
"No, sir. There was nobody in either of these two bottom rooms."
"You are quite certain of that?"
"Perfectly certain."
I took up the ball of paper, unrolled it and spread it out upon thetable. To my disgust it was only the back half of an envelope, andthough it had a few figures dotted about upon it, was of no possible useto us.
"Nothing there?" asked the Inspector.
"Nothing at all," I answered bitterly, "save a few incomprehensiblefigures."
"Well, in that case, we'd better be getting up to the station and see ifthey've discovered anything yet."
"Come along, then," I answered. "We must be quick though, for we've losta lot of precious time, and every minute counts."
I took up the _Evening Mercury_ and followed him out to the cab, afterhaving sincerely thanked the hotel proprietor and the barman for theircourtesy. The Inspector gave the driver his orders and we set off. As wewent we discussed our next movements, and while we were doing so I idlyglanced at the paper I held in my hand. There was a lamp in the cab, andthe light showed me on the bottom right-hand corner a round blueindia-rubber stamp mark, "W. E. Maxwell, stationer and newsagent, 23,Ipswell Street, Woolahra."
"Stop the cab!" I almost shouted. "Tell the man to drive us back to the_Canary Bird_ quickly."
The order was given, the cab faced round, and in less than a minute wewere on our way back.
"What's up now?" asked the astonished Inspector.
"Only that I believe I've got a clue," I cried.
I did not explain any further, and in five minutes we had brought thelandlord downstairs again.
"I'm sorry to trouble you in this fashion," I cried, "but life and deathdepend on it. I want you to let me see No. 5 again."
He conducted us to the room, and once more the gas was lit. The smallstrip of envelope lay upon the table just as I had thrown it down. Iseated myself and again looked closely at it. Then I sprang to my feet.
"I thought so!" I cried excitedly, pointing to the paper; "I told you Ihad a clue. Now, Mr. Inspector, who wrote those figures?"
"The man you call Nikola, I suppose."
"That's right. Now who would have bought this newspaper? You mustremember that Thompson only left his box to come in here."
"Nikola, I suppose."
"Very good. Then according to your own showing Nikola owned this pieceof envelope and this _Evening Mercury_. If that is certain, look here!"
He came round and looked over my shoulder. I pointed to what wasevidently part of the gummed edge of the top of the envelope. On it werethese three important words, "----swell Street, Woolahra."
"Well," he said, "what about it?"
"Why, look here!" I said, as I opened the _Evening Mercury_ and pointedto the stamp-mark at the bottom. "The man who bought this newspaper atMr. Maxwell's shop also bought this envelope there. The letters 'swell'before 'street' constitute the last half of Ipswell, the name of thestreet. If that man be Nikola, as we suspect, the person who served himis certain to remember him, and it is just within the bounds ofpossibility he may know his address."
"That's so," said the Inspector, struck with the force of my argument."I know Mr. Maxwell's shop, and our best plan will be to go on there asfast as we can."
Again thanking the landlord for his civility, we returned to our cab andonce more set off, this time for Mr. Maxwell's shop in Ipswell Street.By the time we reached it it was nearly three o'clock, and graduallygrowing light. As the cab drew up alongside the curb the Inspectorjumped out and rang the bell at the side door. It was opened afterawhile by a shock-headed youth, who stared at us in sleepy astonishment.
"Does Mr. Maxwell live at the shop?" asked the Inspector.
"No, sir."
"Where then?"
"Ponson Street--third house on the left-hand side."
"Thank you."
Once more we jumped into the cab and rattled off. It seemed to me, soanxious and terrified was I for my darling's safety, that we were fatednever to get the information we wanted; the whole thing was like somenightmare, in which, try how I would to move, every step was clogged.
A few minutes' drive brought us to Ponson Street, and we drew up at thethird house on the left-hand side. It was a pretty little villa, with anice front garden and a creeper-covered verandah. We rang the bell andwaited. Presently we heard some one coming down the passage, and amoment later the door was unlocked.
"Who is there?" cried a voice from within.
"Police," said my companion as before.
The door was immediately opened, and a very small sandy-complexionedman, dressed in a flaring suit of striped pyjamas, stood before us. "Isanything wrong, gentlemen?" he asked nervously.
"Nothing to affect you, Mr. Maxwell," my companion replied. "We onlywant a little important information, if you can give it us. We areanxious to discover a man's whereabouts before daylight, and we havebeen led to believe that you are the only person who can give us thenecessary clue."
"Good gracious! But I shall be happy to serve you if I can," the littleman answered, leading the way into his dining-room with an air ofimportance his appearance rather belied. "What is it?"
"Well, it's this," I replied, producing the piece of envelope and the_Evening Mercury_. "You see these letters on the top of this paper,don't you?" He nodded, his attention at once secured by seeing his ownname. "Well, that envelope was evidently purchased in your shop. So wasthis newspaper."
"How can you tell that?"
"In the case of the envelope, by these letters; in that of the paper, byyour rubber stamp on the bottom."
"Ah! Well, now, and in what way can I help you?"
"We want to know the address of the man who bought them."
"That will surely be difficult. Can you give me any idea of what he waslike?"
"Tall, slightly foreign in appearance, distinctly handsome, sallowcomplexion, very dark eyes, black hair, small hands and feet."
As my description progressed the little man's face brightened. Then hecried with evident triumph--"I know the man; he came into the shopyesterday afternoon."
"And his address is?"
His face fell again. His information was not quite as helpful as he hadexpected it would be.
"There I can't help you, I'm sorry to say. He bought a packet of paperand envelopes and the _Evening Mercury_ and then left the shop. I was sostruck by his appearance that I went to the door and watched him crossthe road."
"And in which direction did he go?"
"Over to Podgers' chemist shop across the way. That was the last I sawof him."
"I'm obliged to you, Mr. Maxwell," I said, shaking him by the hand. "ButI'm sorry you can't tell us something more definite about him." Thenturning to the Inspector: "I suppose we had better go off and findPodgers. But if we have to spend much more time in rushing about likethis we shall be certain to lose them altogether."
"Let us be off to Podgers', then, as fast as we can go."
Bidding Mr. Maxwell good-bye, we set off again, and in ten minutes hadarrived at the shop and had Mr. Podgers downstairs. We explained ourerrand briefly, and gave a minute description of the man we wanted.
"I remember him perfectly," said the sedate Podgers. "He came into myshop last night and purchased a bottle of chloroform."
"You made him sign the poison book, of course?"
"Naturally I did, Mr. Inspector. Would you like to see his signature?"
"Very much," we both answered at once, and the book was accordinglyproduced.
Podgers ran his finger down the list.
"Brown, Williams, Davis--ah! here it is. 'Chloroform: J. Venneage, 22,Calliope Street, Woolahra.'"
"Venneage!" I cried. "Why, that's not his name!"
"Very likely not," replied Podgers; "but it's the name he gave me."
"Never mind, we'll try 22, Calliope Street, on the chance," said theInspector.
Again we drove off, this time at increased pace. In less than fifteenminutes we had turned into the street we wanted, and pulled up about ahundred yards from the junction. It was a small thoroughfare, with along line of second-class villa residences on either side. A policemanwas sauntering along on the opposite side of the way, and the Inspectorcalled him over. He saluted respectfully, and waited to be addressed.
"What do you know of number 22?" asked the Inspector briefly. Theconstable considered for a few moments, and then said--
"Well, to tell you the truth, sir, I didn't know until yesterday that itwas occupied."
"Have you seen anybody about there?"
"I saw three men go in just as I came on the beat to-night."
"What were they like?"
"Well, I don't know that I looked much at them. They were all prettybig, and they seemed to be laughing and enjoying themselves."
"Did they! Well, we must go in there and have a look at them. You hadbetter come with us."
We walked on down the street till we arrived at No. 22. Then opening thegate we went up the steps to the hall door. It was quite light enough bythis time to enable us to see everything distinctly. The Inspector gavethe bell a good pull and the peal re-echoed inside the house. But not asound of any living being came from within in answer. Again the bell waspulled, and once more we waited patiently, but with the same result.
"Either there's nobody at home or they refuse to hear," said theInspector. "Constable, you remain where you are and collar the first manyou see. Mr. Hatteras, we will go round to the back and try to effect anentrance from there."
We left the front door, and finding a path reached the yard. The housewas only a small one, with a little verandah at the rear on to which theback door opened. On either side of the door were two fair-sizedwindows, and by some good fortune it chanced that the catch of one ofthese was broken.
Lifting the sash up, the Inspector jumped into the room, and as soon ashe was through I followed him. Then we looked about us. The room,however, was destitute of furniture or occupants.
"I don't hear anybody about," my companion said, opening the door thatled into the hall. Just at that moment I heard a sound, and touching hisarm signed to him to listen. We both did so, and surely enough therecame again the faint muttering of a human voice. In the half-dark of thehall it sounded most uncanny.
"Somebody in one of the front rooms," said the Inspector. "I'll slipalong and open the front door, bring in the man from outside, and thenwe'll burst into the room and take our chance of capturing them."
He did as he proposed, and when the constable had joined us we movedtowards the room on the left.
Again the mutterings came from the inside, and the Inspector turned thehandle of the door. It was locked, however. "Let me burst it in," Iwhispered.
He nodded, and I accordingly put my shoulder against it, and bringing mystrength to bear sent it flying in.
Then we rushed into the room, to find it, at first glance, empty. Justat that moment, however, the muttering began again, and we lookedtowards the darkest corner; somebody was there, lying on the ground. Irushed across and knelt down to look. _It was Beckenham; his mouthgagged and his hands and feet bound. The noise we had heard was thatmade by him trying to call us to his assistance._
In less time than it takes to tell I had cut his bonds and helped him tosit up. Then I explained to the Inspector who he was.
"Thank God you're found!" I cried. "But what does it all mean? How longhave you been like this? and where is Nikola?"
"I don't know how long I've been here," he answered, "and I don't knowwhere Nikola is."
"But you must know something about him!" I cried. "For Heaven's saketell me all you can! I'm in awful trouble, and your story may give methe means of saving a life that is dearer to me than my own."
"Get me something to drink first, then," he replied; "I'm nearly dyingof thirst; after that I'll tell you."
Fortunately I had had the foresight to put a flask of whisky into mypocket, and I now took it out and gave him a stiff nobbler. It revivedhim somewhat, and he prepared to begin his tale. But the Inspectorinterrupted--
"Before you commence, my lord, I must send word to the Commissioner thatyou have been found."
He wrote a message on a piece of paper and despatched the constable withit. Having done so he turned to Beckenham and said--
"Now, my lord, pray let us hear your story."
Beckenham forthwith commenced.



CHAPTER III
LORD BECKENHAM'S STORY

"When you left me, Mr. Hatteras, I remained in the house for half anhour or so reading. Then, thinking no harm could possibly come of it, Istarted out for a little excursion on my own account. It was abouthalf-past eleven then.
"Leaving the hotel I made for the ferry and crossed Darling Harbour toMillers Point; then, setting myself for a good ramble, off I wentthrough the city, up one street and down another, to eventually bring upin the botanical gardens. The view was so exquisite that I sat myselfdown on a seat and resigned myself to rapturous contemplation of it. Howlong I remained there I could not possibly say. I only know that while Iwas watching the movements of a man-o'-war in the cove below me I becameaware, by intuition--for I did not look at him--that I was the object ofclose scrutiny by a man standing some little distance from me. PresentlyI found him drawing closer to me, until he came boldly up and seatedhimself beside me. He was a queer-looking little chap, in some ways notunlike my old tutor Baxter, with a shrewd, clean-shaven face, grey hair,bushy eyebrows, and a long and rather hooked nose. He was well dressed,and when we had been sitting side by side for some minutes he turned tome and said--
"'It is a beautiful picture we have spread before us, is it not?'
"'It is, indeed,' I answered. 'And what a diversity of shipping!'
"'You may well say that,' he continued. 'It would be an interestingstudy, would it not, to make a list of all the craft that pass in andout of this harbour in a day--to put down the places where they werebuilt and whence they hail, the characters of their owners andcommanders, and their errands about the world. What a book it wouldmake, would it not? Look at that man-o'-war in Farm Cove; think of themoney she cost, think of where that money came from--the rich people whopaid without thinking, the poor who dreaded the coming of the taxcollector like a visit from the Evil One; imagine the busy dockyard inwhich she was built--can't you seem to hear the clang of the rivetersand the buzzing of the steam saws? Then take that Norwegian boat passingthe fort there; think of her birthplace in far Norway, think of theplaces she has since seen, imagine her masts growing in the forests onthe mountain side of lonely fiords, where the silence is so intense thata stone rolling down and dropping into the water echoes like thunder.'
"He went on like this for some time, until I said: 'You seem to havestudied it very carefully.'
"'Perhaps I have,' he answered. 'I am deeply interested in the life ofthe sea--few more so. Are you a stranger in New South Wales?'
"'Quite a stranger,' I replied. 'I only arrived in Australia a few dayssince.'
"'Indeed! Then you have to make the acquaintance of many entrancingbeauties yet. Forgive my impertinence, but if you are on a tour, let merecommend you to see the islands before you return home.'
"'The South-Sea Islands, I presume you mean?' I said.
"'Yes; the bewitching islands of the Southern Seas! The mostentrancingly beautiful spots on God's beautiful earth! See them beforeyou go. They will amply repay any trouble it may cost you to reachthem.'
"'I should like to see them very much,' I answered.
"'Perhaps you are interested in them already?' he continued.
"'Very much indeed,' I replied.
"'Then, in that case, I may not be considered presumptuous if I offer toassist you. I am an old South-Sea merchant myself, and I have amassed alarge collection of beautiful objects from the islands. If you wouldallow me the pleasure I should be delighted to show them to you.'
"'I should like to see them very much indeed,' I answered, thinking itextremely civil of him.
"'If you have time we might perhaps go and over-haul them now. My houseis but a short distance from the Domain, and my carriage is waiting atthe gates.'
"'I shall be delighted,' I said, thinking there could be no possibleharm in my accepting his invitation.
"'But before we go, may I be allowed to introduce myself?' the oldgentleman said, taking a card-case from his pocket and withdrawing acard. This he handed to me, and on it I read--
     'Mr. Mathew Draper.'
"'I am afraid I have no card to offer you in return,' I said; 'but I amthe Marquis of Beckenham.'
"'Indeed! Then I am doubly honoured,' the old gentleman said, with a lowbow. 'Now shall we wend our way up towards my carriage?'
"We did so, chatting as we went. At the gates a neat brougham waswaiting for us, and in it we took our places. "'Home,' cried my host,and forthwith we set off down the street. Up one thoroughfare and downanother we passed, until I lost all count of our direction. Throughoutthe drive my companion talked away in his best style; commented on thearchitecture of the houses, had many queer stories to tell of thepassers-by, and in many other ways kept my attention engaged till thecarriage came to a standstill before a small but pretty villa in a quietstreet.
"Mr. Draper immediately alighted, and when I had done so, dismissed hiscoachman, who drove away as we passed through the little garden andapproached the dwelling. The front door was opened by a dignifiedman-servant, and we entered. The hall, which was a spacious one for sosmall a dwelling, was filled with curios and weapons, but I had smalltime for observing them, as my host led me towards a room at the back.As we entered it he said 'I make you welcome to my house, my lord. Ihope, now that you have taken the trouble to come, I shall be able toshow you something that will repay your visit.' Thereupon, bidding meseat myself for a few moments, he excused himself and left the room.When he returned he began to do the honours of the apartment. First weexamined a rack of Australian spears, nulla-nullas, and boomerangs, thenanother containing New Zealand hatchets and clubs. After this we crossedto a sort of alcove where reposed in cases a great number of curioscollected from the further islands of the Pacific. I was about to takeup one of these when the door on the other side of the room opened andsome one entered. At first I did not look round, but hearing thenew-comer approaching me I turned, to find myself, to my horrifiedsurprise, face to face _with Dr. Nikola_. He was dressed entirely inblack, his coat was buttoned and displayed all the symmetry of hispeculiar figure, while his hair seemed blacker and his complexion evenpaler than before. He had evidently been prepared for my visit, for heheld out his hand and greeted me without a sign of astonishment upon hisface.
"'This is indeed a pleasure, my lord,' he said, still with his handout-stretched, looking hard at me with his peculiar cat-like eyes. 'Idid not expect to see you again so soon. And you are evidently a littlesurprised at meeting me.'
"'I am more than surprised,' I answered bitterly. 'I am horriblymortified and angry.'
"Mr. Draper said nothing, but Dr. Nikola dropped into a chair and spokefor him.
"'You must not blame my old friend Draper,' he said suavely. 'We havebeen wondering for the last twenty-four hours how we might best get holdof you, and the means we have employed so successfully seemed the onlypossible way. Have no fear, my lord, you shall not be hurt. In less thantwenty-four hours you will enjoy the society of your energetic friendMr. Hatteras again.'
"'What is your reason for abducting me like this?' I asked. 'You arefoolish to do so, for Mr. Hatteras will leave no stone unturned to findme.'
"'I do not doubt that at all,' said Dr. Nikola quietly; 'but I think Mr.Hatteras will find he will have all his work cut out for him this time.'
"'If you imagine that your plans are not known in Sydney you aremistaken,' I cried. 'The farce you are playing at Government House isdetected, and Mr. Hatteras, directly he finds I am lost, will go to LordAmberley, and reveal everything.'
"'I have not the slightest objection,' returned Dr. Nikola quietly. 'Bythe time Mr. Hatteras can take those steps--indeed, by the time hediscovers your absence at all--we shall be beyond his reach.'
"I could not follow his meaning, of course, but while he had beenspeaking I had been looking stealthily round me for a means of escape.The only way out of the room was, of course, by the door, but bothNikola and his ally were between me and that. Then a big stone hatchethanging on the wall near me caught my eye. Hardly had I seen it beforean idea flashed through my brain. Supposing I seized it and fought myway out. The door of the room stood open, and I noticed with delightthat the key was in the lock on the outside. One rush, armed with thebig hatchet, would take me into the passage; then before my foes couldrecover their wits I might be able to turn the key, and, having lockedthem in, make my escape from the house.
"Without another thought I made up my mind, sprang to the wall, wrencheddown the hatchet, and prepared for my rush. But by the time I had doneit both Nikola and Draper were on their feet.
"'Out of my way!' I cried, raising my awful weapon aloft. 'Stop me atyour peril!'
"With my hatchet in the air I looked at Nikola. He was standing rigidlyerect, with one arm out-stretched, the hand pointing at me. His eyesglared like living coals, and when he spoke his voice came from betweenhis teeth like a serpent's hiss.
"'Put down that axe!' he said.
"With that the old horrible fear of him which had seized me on boardship came over me again. His eyes fascinated me so that I could not lookaway from them. I put down the hatchet without another thought. Still hegazed at me in the same hideous fashion.
"'Sit down in that chair,' he said quietly. 'You cannot disobey me.' Andindeed I could not. My heart was throbbing painfully, and an awfuldizziness was creeping over me. Still I could not get away from thoseterrible eyes. They seemed to be growing larger and fiercer everymoment. Oh! I can feel the horror of them even now. As I gazed his whiteright hand was moving to and fro before me with regular sweeps, and witheach one I felt my own will growing weaker and weaker. That I was beingmesmerized, I had no doubt, but if I had been going to be murdered Icould not have moved a finger to save myself.
"Then there came a sudden but imperative knock at the door, and bothNikola and Draper rose. Next moment the man whom we had noticed in thetrain as we came up from Melbourne, and against whom you, Mr. Hatteras,had warned me in Sydney, entered the room. He crossed and stoodrespectfully before Nikola.
"'Well, Mr. Eastover, what news?' asked the latter. 'Have you done whatI told you?'
"'Everything,' the man answered, taking an envelope from his pocket.'Here is the letter you wanted.'
"Nikola took it from his subordinate's hand, broke the seal, and havingwithdrawn the contents, read it carefully. All this time, seeingresistance was quite useless, I did not move. I felt too sick and giddyfor anything. When he had finished his correspondence Nikola saidsomething in an undertone to Draper, who immediately left the room.During the time he was absent none of us spoke. Presently he returned,bringing with him a wine glass filled with water, which he presented toNikola.
"'Thank you,' said that gentleman, feeling in his waistcoat pocket.Presently he found what he wanted and produced what looked like a smallsilver scent-bottle. Unscrewing the top, he poured from it into the wineglass a few drops of some dark-coloured liquid. Having done this hesmelt it carefully and then handed it to me. 'I must ask you to drinkthis, my lord,' he said. 'You need have no fear of the result: it isperfectly harmless.'
"Did ever man hear such a cool proposition? Very naturally I declined todo as he wished.
"'You _must_ drink it!' he reiterated. 'Pray do so at once. I have notime to waste bandying words.'
"'I will not drink it!' I cried, rising to my feet, and prepared to makea fight for it if need should be.
"Once more those eyes grew terrible, and once more that hand began tomake the passes before my face. Again I felt the dizziness stealing overme. His will was growing every moment too strong for me. I could notresist him. So when he once more said, 'Drink!' I took the glass and didas I was ordered. After that I remember seeing Nikola, Draper, and theman they called Eastover engaged in earnest conversation on the otherside of the room. I remember Nikola crossing to where I sat and gazingsteadfastly into my face, and after that I recollect no more until Icame to my senses in this room, to find myself bound and gagged. Forwhat seemed like hours I lay in agony, then I heard footsteps in theverandah, and next moment the sound of voices. I tried to call for help,but could utter no words. I thought you would go away withoutdiscovering me, but fortunately for me you did not do so. Now, Mr.Hatteras, I have told you everything."
For some time after the Marquis had concluded his strange story both theInspector and I sat in deep thought. That Beckenham had been kidnappedin order that he should be out of the way while the villainous plot forabducting Phyllis was being enacted there could be no doubt. But why hadhe been chosen? and what clues were we to gather from what he had toldus? I turned to the Inspector and said--
"What do you think will be the best course for us to pursue now?"
"I have been wondering myself. I think, as there is nothing to belearned from this house, the better plan would be for you two gentlemento go back to Mr. Wetherell, while I return to the detective office andsee if anything has been discovered by the men there. As soon as I havefound out I will join you at Potts Point. What do you think?"
I agreed that it would be the best course; so, taking the Marquis by thearms (for he was still too weak to walk alone), we left the house, andwere about to step into the street when I stopped, and asking them towait for me ran back into the room again. In the corner, just as it hadbeen thrown down, lay the rope with which Beckenham had been bound andthe pad which had been fitted over his mouth. I picked both up andcarried them into the verandah.
"Come here, Mr. Inspector," I cried. "I thought I should learn somethingfrom this. Look at this rope and this pad, and tell me what you make ofthem."
He took each up in turn and looked them over and over. But he only shookhis head.
"I don't see anything to guide us," he said.
"Don't you?" I cried. "Why, they tell me more than I have learnt fromanything else I've seen. Look at the two ends of this. They're seized!"
I looked triumphantly at him, but he only stared at me in surprise, andsaid, "What do you mean by 'seized'?"
"Why, I mean that the ends are bound up in this way--look for yourself.Now not one landsman in a hundred _seizes_ a rope's end. This line wastaken from some ship in the harbour, and----By Jove! here's anotherdiscovery!"
"What now?" he cried, being by this time almost as excited as I wasmyself.
"Why, look here," I said, holding the middle of the rope up to thelight, so that we could get a better view of it. "Not very many hoursago this rope was running through a block, and that block was anuncommon one."
"How do you know that it was an uncommon one?"
"Because it has been newly painted, and what's funnier still, paintedgreen, of all other colours. Look at this streak of paint along theline; see how it's smudged. Now, let's review the case as we walkalong."
So saying, with the Marquis between us, we set off down the street,hoping to be able to pick up a cab.
"First and foremost," I said, "remember old Draper's talk of the SouthSeas--remember the collection of curios he possessed. Probably he owns aschooner, and it's more than probable that this line and this bit ofcanvas came from it."
"I see what you're driving at," said the Inspector. "It's worthconsidering. Directly I get to the office I will set men to work to tryand find this mysterious gentleman. You would know him again, my lord?"
"I should know him anywhere," was Beckenham's immediate reply.
"And have you any idea at all where this house, to which he conductedyou, is located?"
"None at all. I only know that it was about half-way down a street ofwhich all the houses, save the one at the corner--which was a grocer'sshop--were one-storied villas."
"Nothing a little more definite, I suppose?"
"Stay! I remember that there was an empty house with broken windowsalmost opposite, and that on either side of the steps leading up to thefront door were two stone eagles with out-stretched wings. The head ofone of the eagles--the left, I think--was missing."
The Inspector noted these things in his pocket-book, and just as he hadfinished we picked up a cab and called it to the side walk. When we hadgot in and given the driver Mr. Wetherell's address, I said to theInspector--"What are you going to do first?"
"Put some men on to find Mr. Draper, and some more to find a schoonerwith her blocks newly painted green."
"You won't be long in letting us know what you discover?" I said."Remember how anxious we are."
"You may count on my coming to you at once with any news I may procure,"he answered.
A few moments later we drew up at Mr. Wetherell's door. Bidding theInspector good-bye we went up the steps and rang the bell. By the timethe cab was out in the street again we were in the house making our way,behind the butler, to Mr. Wetherell's study.
The old gentleman had not gone to bed, but sat just as I had left him somany hours before. As soon as we were announced he rose to receive us.
"Thank God, Mr. Hatteras, you have come back!" he said. "I have been ina perfect fever waiting for you. What have you to report?"
"Not very much, I'm afraid," I answered. "But first let me have thepleasure of introducing the real Marquis of Beckenham to you, whom wehave had the good fortune to find and rescue."
Mr. Wetherell bowed gravely and held out his hand.
"My lord," he said, "I am thankful that you have been discovered. I lookupon it as one step towards the recovery of my poor girl. I hope nowthat both you and Mr. Hatteras will take up your abode with me duringthe remainder of your stay in the colony. You have had a scurvy welcometo New South Wales. We must see if we can't make up to you for it. Butyou look thoroughly worn out; I expect you would like to go to bed."
He rang the bell, and when his butler appeared, gave him someinstructions about preparing rooms for us.
Ten minutes later the man returned and stated that our rooms were ready,whereupon Mr. Wetherell himself conducted Beckenham to the apartmentassigned to him. When he returned to me, he asked if I would not like toretire too, but I would not hear of it. I could not have slept a wink,so great was my anxiety. Seeing this, he seated himself and listenedattentively while I gave him an outline of Beckenham's story. I hadhardly finished before I heard a carriage roll up to the door. There wasa ring at the bell, and presently the butler, who, like ourselves, hadnot dreamt of going to bed, though his master had repeatedly urged himto do so, entered and announced the Inspector.
Wetherell hobbled across to receive him with an anxious face. "Have youany better tidings for me?" he asked.
"Not very much, I'm afraid, sir," the Inspector said, shaking his head."The best I have to tell you is that your carriage and horse have beenfound in the yard of an empty house off Pitt Street."
"Have you been able to discover any clue as to who put them there?"
"Not one! The horse was found out of the shafts tied to the wall. Therewas not a soul about the place."
Wetherell sat down again and covered his face with his hands. At thatinstant the telephone bell in the corner of the room rang sharply. Ijumped up and went across to it. Placing the receivers to my ears, Iheard a small voice say, "Is that Mr. Wetherell's house, Potts Point?"
"Yes," I answered.
"Who is speaking?"
"Mr. Hatteras. Mr. Wetherell, however, is in the room. Who are you?"
"Detective officer. Will you tell Mr. Wetherell that Mr. Draper's househas been discovered?"
I communicated the message to Mr. Wetherell, and then the Inspectorjoined me at the instrument and spoke. "Where is the house?" heinquired.
"83, Charlemagne Street--north side."
"Very good. Inspector Murdkin speaking. Let plain clothes men bestationed at either end of the street, and tell them to be on the lookout for Draper, and to wait for me. I'll start for the house at once."
He rang off and then turned to me.
"Are you too tired to come with me, Mr. Hatteras?" he inquired.
"Of course not," I answered. "Let us go at once."
"God bless you!" said Wetherell. "I hope you may catch the fellow."
Bidding him good-bye, we went downstairs again, and jumped into the cab,which was directed to the street in question.
Though it was a good distance from our starting-point, in less than halfan hour we had pulled up at the corner. As the cab stopped, a tall man,dressed in blue serge, who had been standing near the lamp-post, cameforward and touched his hat.
"Good-morning, Williams," said the Inspector. "Any sign of our man?"
"Not one, sir. He hasn't come down the street since I've been here."
"Very good. Now come along and we'll pay the house a visit."
So saying he told the cabman to follow us slowly, and we proceeded downthe street. About half-way along he stopped and pointed to a house onthe opposite side.
"That is the house his lordship mentioned, with the broken windows, andthis is where Mr. Draper dwells, if I am not much mistaken--see theeagles are on either, side of the steps, just as described."
It was exactly as Beckenham had told us, even to the extent of theheadless eagle on the left of the walk. It was a pretty little place,and evidently still occupied, as a maid was busily engaged cleaning thesteps.
Pushing open the gate, the Inspector entered the little garden andaccosted the girl.
"Good-morning," he said politely. "Pray, is your master at home?"
"Yes, sir; he's at breakfast just now."
"Well, would you mind telling him that two gentlemen would like to seehim?"
"Yes, sir."
The girl rose to her feet, and, wiping her hands on her apron, led theway into the house. We followed close behind her. Then, asking us towait a moment where we were, she knocked at a door on the right, andopening it, disappeared within.
"Now," said the Inspector, "our man will probably appear, and we shallhave him nicely."
The Inspector had scarcely spoken before the door opened again, and aman came out. To our surprise, however, he was very tall and stout, witha round, jovial face, and a decided air of being satisfied with himselfand the world in general.
"To what do I owe the honour of this visit?" he said, looking at theInspector.
"I am an Inspector of Police, as you see," answered my companion, "andwe are looking for a man named Draper, who yesterday was in possessionof this house."
"I am afraid you have made some little mistake," returned the other. "Iam the occupier of this house, and have been for some months past. NoMr. Draper has anything at all to do with it."
The Inspector's face was a study for perfect bewilderment. Nor couldmine have been much behind it. The Marquis had given such a minutedescription of the dwelling opposite and the two stone birds on thesteps, that there could be no room for doubt that this _was_ the house.And yet it was physically impossible that this man could be Draper; and,if it were the place where Beckenham had been drugged, why were theweapons, etc., he had described not in the hall?
"I cannot understand it at all," said the Inspector, turning to me."This is the house, and yet where are the things with which it ought tobe furnished?"
"You have a description of the furniture, then?" said the owner. "Thatis good, for it will enable me to prove to you even more clearly thatyou are mistaken. Pray come and see my sitting-rooms for yourselves."
He led the way into the apartment from which he had been summoned, andwe followed him. It was small and nicely furnished, but not a South-Seacurio or native weapon was to be seen in it. Then we followed him to thecorresponding room at the back of the house. This was upholstered in thelatest fashion; but again there was no sign of what Beckenham had led usto expect we should find. We were completely nonplussed.
"I am afraid we have troubled you without cause," said the Inspector, aswe passed out into the hall again.
"Don't mention it," the owner answered; "I find my compensation in theknowledge that I am not involved in any police unpleasantness."
"By the way," said the Inspector suddenly, "have you any idea who yourneighbours may be?"
"Oh, dear, yes!" the man replied. "On my right I have a frigidlyrespectable widow of Low Church tendencies. On my left, the Chief Tellerof the Bank of New Holland."
"In that case we can only apologize for our intrusion and wish yougood-morning."
"Pray don't apologize. I should have been glad to have assisted you.Good-morning."
We went down the steps again and out into the street. As we passedthrough the gate, the Inspector stopped and examined a mark on theright-hand post. Then he stooped and picked up what looked like apebble. Having done so we resumed our walk.
"What on earth can be the meaning of it all?" I asked. "Can his lordshiphave made a mistake?"
"No, I think not. We have been cleverly duped, that's all."
"What makes you think so?"
"I didn't think so until we passed through the gate on our way out. NowI'm certain of it. Come across the street."
I followed him across the road to a small plain-looking house, with aneatly-curtained bow window and a brass plate on the front door. Fromthe latter I discovered that the proprietress of the place was adressmaker, but I was completely at a loss to understand why we werevisiting her. As soon as the door was opened the Inspector asked if MissTiffins were at home, and, on being told that she was, inquired if wemight see her. The maid went away to find out, and presently returnedand begged us to follow her. We did so down a small passage towards thedoor of the room which contained the bow window.
Miss Tiffins bade us be seated, and then asked in what way she could beof service to us.
"In the first place, madam," said the Inspector, "a serious crime hasbeen perpetrated, and I have reason to believe that it may be in yourpower to give us a clue to the persons who committed it."
"You frighten me, sir," replied the lady. "I cannot at all see in whatway I can help you. I lead a life of the greatest quietness."
"I do not wish to imply that you do know anything of them. I only wantyou to carry your memory back as far as yesterday, and to answer me thefew simple questions I may ask you."
"I will answer them to the best of my ability."
"Well, in the first place, may I ask if you remember seeing a broughamdrive up to that house opposite about mid-day yesterday?"
"No, I cannot say that I do," the old lady replied after a moment'sconsideration.
"Do you remember seeing a number of men leave the house during theafternoon?"
"No. If they came out I did not notice them."
"Now, think for one moment, if you please, and tell me what vehicles, ifany, you remember seeing stop there."
"Let me try to remember. There was Judge's baker's cart, about three,the milk about five, and a furniture van about half-past six."
"That's just what I want to know. And have you any recollection whosefurniture van it was?"
"Yes. I remember reading the name as it turned round. Goddard & James,George Street. I wondered if the tenant was going to move."
The Inspector rose, and I followed his example.
"I am exceedingly obliged to you, Miss Tiffins. You have helped mematerially."
"I am glad of that," she answered; "but I trust I shall not be wanted togive evidence in court."
"You need have no fear on that score," the Inspector answered."Good-day."
When we had left the house the Inspector turned to me and said--
"It was a great piece of luck finding a dressmaker opposite. Commend meto ladies of that profession for knowing what goes on in the street. Nowwe will visit Messrs. Goddard & James and see who hired the things.Meantime, Williams," (here he called the plain-clothes constable to him),"you had better remain here and watch that house. If the man we sawcomes out, follow him, and let me know where he goes."
"Very good, sir," the constable replied, and we left him to his vigil.
Then, hailing a passing cab, we jumped into it and directed the driverto convey us to George Street. By this time it was getting on formid-day, and we were both worn out. But I was in such a nervous statethat I could not remain inactive. Phyllis had been in Nikola's handsnearly fourteen hours, and so far we had not obtained one singledefinite piece of information as to her whereabouts.
Arriving at the shop of Messrs. Goddard & James, we went inside andasked to see the chief partner. An assistant immediately conveyed us toan office at the rear of the building, where we found an elderlygentleman writing at a desk. He looked up as we entered, and then,seeing the Inspector's uniform, rose and asked our business.
"The day before yesterday," began my companion, "you supplied agentleman with a number of South-Sea weapons and curios on hire, did younot?"
"I remember doing so--yes," was the old gentleman's answer. "What aboutit?"
"Only I should be glad if you would favour me with a description of theperson who called upon you about them--or a glimpse of his letter, if hewrote."
"He called and saw me personally."
"Ah! That is good. Now would you be so kind as to describe him?"
"Well, in the first place, he was very tall and rather handsome; he had,if I remember rightly, a long brown moustache, and was decidedly welldressed."
"That doesn't tell us very much, does it? Was he alone?"
"No. He had with him, when he came into the office, an individual whoseface remains fixed in my memory--indeed I cannot get it out of my head."
Instantly I became all excitement.
"What was this second person like?" I asked.
"Well, I can hardly tell you--that is to say, I can hardly give you agood enough description of him to make you see him as I saw him. He wastall and yet very slim, had black hair, a sallow complexion, and theblackest eyes I ever saw in a man. He was clean-shaven and exquisitelydressed, and when he spoke, his teeth glittered like so many pearls. Inever saw another man like him in my life."
"Nikola, for a thousand!" I cried, bringing my hand down with a thumpupon the table.
"It looks as if we're on the track at last," said the Inspector. Then,turning to Mr. Goddard again: "And may I ask now what excuse they madeto you for wanting these things!"
"They did not offer any; they simply paid a certain sum down for thehire of them, gave me their address, and then left."
"And the address was?"
"83, Charlemagne Street. Our van took the things there and fetched themaway last night."
"Thank you. And now one or two other questions. What name did the hirergive?"
"Eastover."
"When they left your shop how did they go away?"
"A cab was waiting at the door for them, and I walked out to it withthem."
"There were only two of them, you think?"
"No. There was a third person waiting for them in the cab, and it wasthat very circumstance which made me anxious to have my things broughtback as soon as possible. If I had been able to, I should have evendeclined to let them go."
"Why so?"
"Well, to tell you that would involve a story. But perhaps I had bettertell you. It was in this way. About three years ago, through a distantrelative, I got to know a man named Draper."
"Draper!" I cried. "You don't mean--but there, I beg your pardon. Praygo on."
"As I say, I got to know this man Draper, who was a South-Sea trader. Wemet once or twice, and then grew more intimate. So friendly did we atlast become, that I even went so far as to put some money into a schemehe proposed to me. It was a total failure. Draper proved a perfect fraudand a most unbusiness-like person, and all I got out of the transactionwas the cases of curios and weapons which this man Eastover hired fromme. It was because--when I went out with my customers to their cab--Isaw this man Draper waiting for them that I became uneasy about mythings. However, all's well that ends well, and as they returned mygoods and paid the hire I must not grumble."
"And now tell me what you know of Draper's present life," the Inspectorsaid.
"Ah! I'm afraid of that I can tell you but little. He has been twicedeclared bankrupt, and the last time there was some fuss made over hisschooner, the _Merry Duchess_."
"He possesses a schooner, then?"
"Oh, yes! A nice boat. She's in harbour now."
"Thank you very much, Mr. Goddard. I am obliged to you for yourassistance in this matter."
"Don't mention it. I hope that what I have told you may prove of serviceto you."
"I'm sure it will. Good-day."
"Good-day, gentlemen."
He accompanied us to the door, and then bade us farewell. "Now what arewe to do?" I asked.
"Well, first, I am going back to the office to put a man on to find thisschooner, and then I'm going to take an hour or two's rest. By that timewe shall know enough to be able to lay our hands on Dr. Nikola and hisvictim, I hope."
"God grant we may!"
"Where are you going now?"
"Back to Potts Point," I answered.
We thereupon bade each other farewell and set off in differentdirections.
When I reached Mr. Wetherell's house I learned from the butler that hismaster had fallen asleep in the library. Not wishing to disturb him, Iinquired the whereabouts of my own bedroom, and on being conducted toit, laid myself down fully dressed upon the bed. So utterly worn out wasI, that my head had no sooner touched the pillow than I was fast asleep.How long I lay there I do not know, but when I woke it was to find Mr.Wetherell standing beside me, holding a letter in his hand. He was whiteas a sheet, and trembling in every limb. "Read this, Mr. Hatteras," hecried. "For Heaven's sake tell me what we are to do!"
I sat up on the side of the bed and read the letter he handed to me. Itwas written in what was evidently a disguised hand, on commonnote-paper, and ran:----
     "TO MR. WETHERELL,     "POTTS POINT, SYDNEY
     "DEAR SIR,
     "This is to inform you that your daughter is in very safe keeping.     If you wish to find her you had better be quick about it. What's     more, you had better give up consulting the police, and such like,     in the hope of getting hold of her. The only way you _can_ get her     will be to act as follows: At eight o'clock to-night charter a boat     and pull down the harbour as far as Shark Point. When you get     there, light your pipe three times, and some one in a boat near by     will do the same. Be sure to bring with you the sum of _one hundred     thousand pounds in gold, and--this is most important--bring with     you the little stick you got from China Pete, or do not come at     all_. Above all, do not bring more than one man. If you do not put     in an appearance you will not hear of your daughter again.
     Yours obediently,     "THE MAN WHO KNOWS."



CHAPTER IV
FOLLOWING UP A CLUE

For some moments after I had perused the curious epistle Mr. Wetherellhad brought to my room I remained wrapped in thought.
"What do you make of it?" my companion asked.
"I don't know what to say," I answered, looking at it again. "One thing,however, is quite certain, and that is that, despite its curiouswording, it is intended you should take it seriously."
"You think so?"
"I do indeed. But I think when the Inspector arrives it would be just aswell to show it to him. What do you say?"
"I agree with you. Let us defer consideration of it until we see him."
When, an hour later, the Inspector put in an appearance, the letter wasaccordingly placed before him, and his opinion asked concerning it. Heread it through without comment, carefully examined the writing andsignature, and finally held it up to the light. Having done this heturned to me and said:
"Have you that envelope we found at the _Canary Bird_, Mr. Hatteras?"
I took it out of my pocket and handed it to him. He then placed it onthe table side by side with the letter, and through a magnifying-glassscrutinized both carefully. Having done so, he asked for the envelope inwhich it had arrived. Mr. Wetherell had thrown it into the waste-paperbasket, but a moment's search brought it to light. Again he scrutinizedboth the first envelope and the letter, and then compared them with thesecond cover. "Yes, I thought so," he said. "This letter was writteneither by Nikola, or at his desire. The paper is the same as that hepurchased at the stationer's shop we visited."
"And what had we better do now?" queried Wetherell, who had been eagerlywaiting for his opinion.
"We must think," said the Inspector. "In the first place, I suppose youdon't feel inclined to pay the large sum mentioned here?"
"Not if I can help it, of course," answered Wetherell. "But if the worstcomes to the worst, and I cannot rescue my poor girl any other way, Iwould sacrifice even more than that."
"Well, we'll see if we can find her without compelling you to payanything at all," the Inspector cried. "I've got an idea in my head."
"And what is that?" I cried; for I, too, had been thinking out a plan.
"Well, first and foremost," he answered, "I want you, Mr. Wetherell, totell me all you can about your servants. Let us begin with the butler.How long has he been with you?"
"Nearly twenty years."
"A good and trustworthy servant, I presume?"
"To the last degree. I have implicit confidence in him."
"Then we may dismiss him from our minds. I think I saw a footman in thehall. How long has he been with you?"
"Just about three months."
"And what sort of a fellow is he?"
"I really could not tell you very much. He seems intelligent, quick andwilling, and up to his work."
"Is your cook a man or a woman?"
"A woman. She has been with me since before my wife's death--that is tosay, nearly ten years. You need have no suspicion of her."
"Housemaids?"
"Two. Both have been with me some time, and seem steady, respectablegirls. There is also a kitchen maid; but she has been with me nearly aslong as my cook, and I would stake my reputation on her integrity."
"Well, in that case, the only person who seems at all suspicious is thefootman. May we have him up?"
"With pleasure. I'll ring for him."
Mr. Wetherell rang the bell, and a moment later it was answered by theman himself.
"Come in, James, and shut the door behind you," his master said.
The man did as he was ordered, but not without looking, as I thought, alittle uncomfortable. The Inspector I could see had noticed this too,for he had been watching him intently ever since he had appeared in theroom.
"James," said Mr. Wetherell, "the Inspector of Police wishes to ask youa few questions. Answer him to the best of your ability."
"To begin with," said the Inspector, "I want you to look at thisenvelope. Have you seen it before?"
He handed him the envelope of the anonymous letter addressed to Mr.Wetherell. The man took it and turned it over in his hands.
"Yes, sir," he said, "I have seen it before; I took it in at the frontdoor."
"From whom?"
"From a little old woman, sir," the man answered.
"A little old woman!" cried the Inspector, evidently surprised. "Whatsort of woman?"
"Well, sir, I don't know that I can give you much of a description ofher. She was very small, had a sort of nut-cracker face, a little blackpoke bonnet, and walked with a stick."
"Should you know her again if you saw her?"
"Oh yes, sir."
"Did she say anything when she gave you the letter?"
"Only, 'For Mr. Wetherell, young man.' That was all, sir."
"And you didn't ask if there was an answer? That was rather a singularomission on your part, was it not?"
"She didn't give me time, sir. She just put it into my hand and wentdown the steps again."
"That will do. Now, Mr. Wetherell, I think we'd better see about gettingthat money from the bank. You need not wait, my man."
The footman thereupon left the room, while both Mr. Wetherell and Istared at the Inspector in complete astonishment. He laughed.
"You are wondering why I said that," he remarked.
"I must confess it struck me as curious."
"Well, let me tell you I did it with a purpose. Did you notice thatyoung man's face when he entered the room and when I gave him theletter? There can be no doubt about it, he is in the secret."
"You mean that he is in Nikola's employ? Then why don't you arrest him?"
"Because I want to be quite certain first. I said that about the moneybecause, if he is Nikola's agent, he will carry the information to him,and by so doing keep your daughter in Sydney for at least a day longer.Do you see?"
"I do, and I admire your diplomacy. Now what is your plan?"
"May I first tell mine?" I said.
"Do," said the Inspector, "for mine is not quite matured yet."
"Well," I said, "my idea is this. I propose that Mr. Wetherell shallobtain from his bank a number of gold bags, fill them with lead discs torepresent coin, and let it leak out before this man that he has got themoney in the house. Then to-night Mr. Wetherell will set off for thewater-side. I will row him down the harbour disguised as a boatman. Wewill pick up the boat, as arranged in that letter. In the meantime youmust start from the other side in a police boat, pull up to meet us, andarrest the man. Then we will force him to disclose Miss Wetherell'swhereabouts, and act upon his information. What do you say?"
"It certainly sound feasible," said the Inspector, and Mr. Wetherellnodded his head approvingly. At that moment the Marquis entered theroom, looking much better than when we had found him on the precedingnight, and the conversation branched off into a different channel.
My plot seemed to commend itself so much to Mr. Wetherell's judgment,that he ordered his carriage and drove off there and then to his bank,while I went down to the harbour, arranged about a boat, and having doneso, proceeded up to the town, where I purchased a false beard, an olddungaree suit, such as a man loafing about the harbour might wear, and aslouch hat of villainous appearance. By the time I got back to the houseMr. Wetherell had returned. With great delight he conducted me to hisstudy, and, opening his safe, showed me a number of canvas bags, on eachof which was printed £1,000.
"But surely there are not £100,000 there?"
"No," said the old gentleman with a chuckle. "There is the counterfeitof £50,000 there; for the rest I propose to show him these."
So saying, he dived his hand into a drawer and produced a sheaf of crispbank-notes.
"There--these are notes for the balance of the amount."
"But you surely are not going to pay? I thought we were going to try tocatch the rascals without letting any money change hands."
"So we are, do not be afraid. If you will only glance at these notes youwill see that they are dummies, every one of them. They are for me toexhibit to the man in the boat; in the dark they'll pass muster, neverfear."
"Very good indeed," I said with a laugh. "By the time they can beproperly examined we shall have the police at hand ready to capturehim."
"I believe we shall," the old gentleman cried, rubbing his handstogether in delight--"I believe we shall. And a nice example we'll makeof the rascals. Nikola thinks he can beat me; I'll show him how mistakenhe is!"
And for some time the old gentleman continued in this strain,confidently believing that he would have his daughter with him again bythe time morning came. Nor was I far behind him in confidence. SinceNikola had not spirited her out of the country my plot seemed the one ofall others to enable us to regain possession of her; and not only that,but we hoped it would give us an opportunity of punishing those who hadso schemed against her. Suddenly an idea was born in my brain, andinstantly I acted on it.
"Mr. Wetherell," I said, "supposing, when your daughter is safe again, Ipresume so far as once more to offer myself for your son-in-law, whatwill you say?"
"What will I say?" he cried. "Why, I will tell you that you shall haveher, my boy, with ten thousand blessings on your head. I know you now;and since I've treated you so badly, and you've taken such a noblerevenge, why, I'll make it up to you, or my name's not Wetherell. But wewon't talk any more about that till we have got possession of her; wehave other and more important things to think of. What time ought we tostart to-night?"
"The letter fixes the meeting for ten o'clock; we had better be in theboat by half-past nine. In the meantime I should advise you to take alittle rest. By the way, do you think your footman realizes that youhave the money?"
"He ought to, for he carried it up to this room for me; and, what'smore, he has applied for a holiday this afternoon."
"That's to carry the information. Very good; everything is workingexcellently. Now I'm off to rest for a little while."
"I'll follow your example. In the meantime I'll give orders for an earlydinner."
We dined at seven o'clock sharp, and at half-past eight I went off to myroom to don my disguise; then, bidding the Marquis good-bye--much to theyoung gentleman's disgust, for he was most anxious to accompany us--Islipped quietly out of my window, crossed the garden--I hopedunobserved--and then went down to the harbour side, where the boat I hadchartered was waiting for me. A quarter of an hour later Wetherell'scarriage drove up, and on seeing it I went across and opened the door.My disguise was so perfect that for a moment the old gentleman seemedundecided whether to trust me or not. But my voice, when I spoke,reassured him, and then we set to work carrying the bags of spuriousmoney down to the boat. As soon as this was accomplished we stepped in.I seated myself amid-ships and got out the oars, Mr. Wetherell takingthe yoke-lines in the stern. Then we shoved off, and made our way outinto the harbour.
It was a dull, cloudy night, with hardly a sign of a star in the wholelength and breadth of heaven, while every few minutes a cold, cheerlesswind swept across the water. So chilly indeed was it that before we hadgone very far I began to wish I had added an overcoat to my otherdisguises. We hardly spoke, but pulled slowly down towards the islandmentioned in the letter. The strain on our nerves was intense, and Imust confess to feeling decidedly nervous as I wondered what wouldhappen if the police boat did not pull up to meet us, as we had thatmorning arranged.
A quarter to ten chimed from some church ashore as we approached withina hundred yards of our destination. Then I rested on my oars and waited.All round us were the lights of bigger craft, but no rowing-boat could Isee. About five minutes before the hour I whispered to Wetherell to makeready, and in answer the old gentleman took a matchbox from his pocket.Exactly as the town clocks struck the hour he lit a vesta; it flared alittle and then went out. As it did so a boat shot out of the darknessto port. He struck a second, and then a third. As the last one burned upand then died away, the man rowing the boat I have just referred tostruck a light, then another, then another, in rapid succession. Havingfinished his display, he took up his oars and propelled his boat towardsus. When he was within talking distance he said in a gruff voice:
"Is Mr. Wetherell aboard?"
To this my companion immediately answered, with a tremble in his voice,"Yes, here I am!"
"Money all right?"
"Can you see if I hold it up?" asked Mr. Wetherell. As he spoke a long,black boat came into view on the other side of our questioner, andpulled slowly towards him. It was the police boat.
"No, I don't want to see," said the voice again. "But this is themessage I was to give you. Pull in towards Circular Quay and find the_Maid of the Mist_ barque. Go aboard her, and take your money down intothe cuddy. There you'll get your answer."
"Nothing more?" cried Mr. Wetherell.
"That's all I was told," answered the man, and then said, "Good-night."
At the same moment the police boat pulled up alongside him and madefast. I saw a dark figure enter his boat, and next moment the glare of alantern fell upon the man's face. I picked up my oars and pulled over tothem, getting there just in time to hear the Inspector ask the man hisname.
"James Burbidge," was the reply. "I don't know as how you've gotanything against me. I'm a licensed waterman, I am."
"Very likely," said the Inspector; "but I want a little explanation fromyou. How do you come to be mixed up in this business?"
"What--about this 'ere message, d'you mean?"
"Yes, about this message. Where is it from? Who gave it to you?"
"Well, if you'll let me go, I'll tell you all about it," growled theman. "I was up at the _Hen and Chickens_ this evenin', just afore dark,takin' a nobbler along with a friend. Presently in comes a cove in acloak. He beckons me outside and says, 'Do you want to earn asufring?'--a sufring is twenty bob. So I says, 'My word, I do!' Then hesays, 'Well, you go out on the harbour to-night, and be down agin SharkPoint at ten?' I said I would, and so I was. 'You'll see a boat therewith an old gent in it,' says he. 'He'll strike three matches, and youdo the same. Then ask him if he's Mr. Wetherell. If he says "Yes," askhim if the money's all right? And if he says "Yes" to that, tell him topull in towards Circular Quay and find the _Maid of the Mist_ barque.He's to take his money down to the cuddy, and he'll get his answerthere.' That's the truth so 'elp me bob! I don't know what you wants togo arrestin' of an honest man for."
The Inspector turned to the water police.
"Does any man here know James Burbidge?"
Two or three voices immediately answered in the affirmative, and thisseemed to decide the officer, for he turned to the waterman again andsaid, "As some of my men seem to know you, I'll let you off. But foryour own sake go home and keep a silent tongue."
He thereupon clambered back into his own boat and bade the man depart.In less time than it takes to tell he was out of sight. We then drew upalongside the police boat.
"What had we better do, Mr. Inspector?" asked Mr. Wetherell.
"Find the _Maid of the Mist_ at once. She's an untenanted ship, beingfor sale. You will go aboard, sir, with your companion, and down to thecuddy. Don't take your money, however. We'll draw up alongside as soonas you're below, and when one of their gang, whom you'll despatch forit, comes up to get the coin, we'll collar him, and then come to yourassistance. Do you understand?"
"Perfectly. But how are we to know the vessel?"
"Well, the better plan would be for you to follow us. We'll pull towithin a hundred yards of her. I learn from one of my men here thatshe's painted white, so you'll have no difficulty in recognizing her."
"Very well, then, go on, and we'll follow you."
The police boat accordingly set off, and we followed about fifty yardsbehind her. A thick drizzle was now falling, and it was by no means aneasy matter to keep her in sight. For some time we pulled on. Presentlywe began to get closer to her. In a quarter of an hour we werealongside.
"There's your craft," said the Inspector, pointing as he spoke to a bigvessel showing dimly through the scud to starboard of us. "Pull over toher."
I followed his instructions, and, arriving at the vessel's side, hitchedon, made the painter fast, and then, having clambered aboard, assistedMr. Wetherell to do the same. As soon as we had both gained the deck westood and looked about us, at the same time listening for any soundwhich might proclaim the presence of the men we had come to meet; butsave the sighing of the wind in the shrouds overhead, the dismalcreaking of blocks, and the drip of moisture upon the deck, no sign wasto be heard. There was nothing for it, therefore, but to make our waybelow as best we could. Fortunately I had had the forethought to bringwith me a small piece of candle, which came in very handily at thepresent juncture, seeing that the cuddy, when we reached the companionladder, was wrapt in total darkness. Very carefully I stepped inside,lit the candle, and then, with Mr. Wetherell at my heels, made my waydown the steps.
Arriving at the bottom we found ourselves in a fair-sized saloon of theold-fashioned type. Three cabins stood on either side, while from thebottom of the companion ladder, by which we had descended, to a longcushioned locker right aft under the wheel, ran a table covered withAmerican cloth. But there was no man of any kind to be seen. I openedcabin after cabin, and searched each with a like result. We wereevidently quite alone in the ship.
"What do you make of it all?" I asked of Mr. Wetherell.
"It looks extremely suspicious," he answered. "Perhaps we're too earlyfor them. But see, Mr. Hatteras, there's something on the table at thefarther end."
So there was--something that looked very much like a letter. Together wewent round to the end of the table, and there, surely enough, found aletter pinned to the American cloth, and addressed to my companion in abold but rather quaint handwriting.
"It's for you, Mr. Wetherell," I said, removing the pins and presentingit to him. Thereupon we sat down beside the table, and he broke the sealwith trembling fingers. It was not a very long epistle, and ran:--
     "MY DEAR MR. WETHERELL,--
     "Bags of imitation money and spurious bank-notes will not avail     you, nor is it politic to arrange that the Water Police should meet     you on the harbour for the purpose of arresting me. You have lost     your opportunity, and your daughter accordingly leaves Australia     to-night. I will, however, give you one more chance--take care that     you make the most of it. The sum I now ask is £150,000 _with the     stick given you by China Pete_, and must be paid without inquiry of     any sort. If you are agreeable to this, advertise as follows, 'I     will Pay--W., and give stick!' in the agony column _Sydney Morning     Herald_, on the 18th, 19th, and 20th of this present month.     Arrangements will then be made with you.
     "THE MAN WHO KNOWS."
"Oh, my God, I've ruined all!" cried Mr. Wetherell as he put the letterdown on the table; "and--who knows?--I may have killed my poor child!"
Seeing his misery, I did my best to comfort him; but it was no use. Heseemed utterly broken down by the failure of our scheme, and, if thetruth must be told, my own heart was quite as heavy. One thing was verycertain, there was a traitor in our camp. Some one had overheard ourplans and carried them elsewhere. Could it be the footman? If so, heshould have it made hot for him when I got sufficient proof against him;I could promise him that most certainly. While I was thinking over this,I heard a footstep on the companion stairs, and a moment later theInspector made his appearance. His astonishment at finding us alone,reading a letter by the light of one solitary candle, was unmistakable,for he said, as he came towards us and sat down, "Why, how's this? Whereare the men?"
"There are none. We've been nicely sold," I answered, handing him theletter. He perused it without further remark, and when he had done so,sat drumming with his fingers upon the table in thought.
"We shall have to look in your own house for the person who has given usaway, Mr. Wetherell!" he said at last. "The folk who are running thisaffair are as cute as men are made nowadays; it's a pleasure to measureswords with them."
"What do you think our next move had better be?"
"Get home as fast as we can. I'll return with you, and we'll talk itover. It's no use our remaining here."
We accordingly went on deck, and descended to our wherry again. Thistime the Inspector accompanied us, while the police boat set off downthe harbour on other business. When we had seen it pull out into thedarkness, we threw the imitation money overboard, pushed off for theshore, landed where we had first embarked, and then walked up to Mr.Wetherell's house. It was considerably after twelve o'clock by the timewe reached it, but the butler was still sitting up for us. Hisdisappointment seemed as keen as ours when he discovered that we hadreturned without his young mistress. He followed us up to the study withspirits and glasses, and then at his master's instruction went off tobed.
"Now, gentlemen," began Mr. Wetherell, when the door had closed uponhim, "let us discuss the matter thoroughly. But, before we begin, may Ioffer you cigars?"
The Inspector took one, but I declined, stating that I preferred a pipe.But my pipe was in my bedroom, which was on the other side of thepassage; so asking them to wait for me, I went to fetch it. I left theroom, shutting the door behind me. But it so happened that the pipe-casehad been moved, and it was some minutes before I could find it. Havingdone so, however, I blew out my candle, and was about to leave the room,which was exactly opposite the study, when I heard the green baize doorat the end of the passage open, and a light footstep come along thecorridor. Instantly I stood perfectly still, and waited to see who itmight be. Closer and closer the step came, till I saw in the half darkthe pretty figure of one of the parlour maids. On tip-toe she crept upto the study door, and then stooping down, listened at the keyhole.Instantly I was on the alert, every nerve strained to watch her. Fornearly five minutes she stood there, and then with a glance round,tiptoed quietly along the passage again, closing the baize door afterher.
When she was safely out of hearing I crossed to the study. Both theInspector and Mr. Wetherell saw that something had happened, and weregoing to question me. But I held up my hand.
"Don't ask any questions, but tell me as quickly, and as nearly as youcan, what you have been talking about during the last five minutes," Isaid.
"Why?"
"Don't stop to ask questions. Believe in the importance of my haste.What was it?"
"I have only been giving Mr. Wetherell a notion of the steps I proposeto take," said the Inspector.
"Thank you. Now I'm off. Don't sit up for me, Mr. Wetherell; I'm goingto follow up a clue that may put us on the right scent at last. I don'tthink you had better come, Mr. Inspector, but I'll meet you here againat six o'clock."
"You can't explain, I suppose?" said the latter, looking a littlehuffed.
"I'm afraid not," I answered; "but I'll tell you this much--I saw one ofthe female servants listening at this door. She'll be off, if I mistakenot, with the news she has picked up, and I want to watch her.Good-night."
"Good-night, and good luck to you."
Without another word I slipped off my boots, and carrying them in myhand, left the room, and went downstairs to the morning-room. Thisapartment looked out over the garden, and possessed a window shaded by abig tree. Opening it, I jumped out and carefully closed it after me.Then, pausing for a moment to resume my boots, I crept quietly down thepath, jumped a low wall, and so passed into the back street. About fiftyyards from the tradesmen's entrance, but on the opposite side of theroad, there was a big Moreton Bay fig-tree. Under this I took my stand,and turned a watchful eye upon the house. It was a dark night, so thatit would have been extremely difficult for any one across the way tohave detected my presence.
For some minutes I waited, and was beginning to wonder if I could havebeen deceived, when I heard the soft click of a latch, and next moment asmall dark figure passed out into the street, and closed the gate afterit. Then, pausing a moment as if to make up her mind, for the mysteriousperson was a woman, she set off quickly in the direction of the city. Ifollowed about a hundred yards behind her.
With the exception of one policeman, who stared very hard at me, we didnot meet a soul. Once or twice I nearly lost her, and when we reachedthe city itself I began to see that it would be well for me to decreasethe difference that separated us, if I did not wish to bid good-bye toher altogether. I accordingly hastened my steps, and in this fashion wepassed up one street and down another, until we reached what I cannothelp thinking must have been the lowest quarter of Sydney. On eitherhand were Chinese names and sign-boards, marine stores, slop shops, withpawnbrokers and public-houses galore; while in this locality few of theinhabitants seemed to have any idea of what bed meant. Groups ofsullen-looking men and women were clustered at the corners, and on oneoccasion the person I was pursuing was stopped by them. But sheevidently knew how to take care of herself, for she was soon marching onher way again.
At the end of one long and filthily dirty street she paused and lookedabout her. I had crossed the road just before this, and was scarcely tenyards behind her. Pulling my hat well down to shade my face, andsticking my hands in my pockets, I staggered and reeled along, doing mybest to imitate the gait of a drunken man. Seeing only me about, shewent up to the window of a corner house and tapped with her knucklesthrice upon the glass. Before one could have counted twenty the door ofthe dwelling was opened, and she passed in. Now I was in a nastyfix--either I must be content to abandon my errand, or I must get insidethe building, and trust to luck to procure the information I wanted.Fortunately, in my present disguise the girl would be hardly likely torecognize her master's guest. So giving them time to get into a room, Ialso went up to the door and turned the handle. To my delight it wasunlocked. I opened it, and entered the house.
The passage was in total darkness; but I could make out where the doorof the room I wanted to find was located by a thin streak of light lowdown upon the floor. As softly as I possibly could, I crept up to it,and bent down to look through the keyhole. The view was necessarilylimited, but I could just make out the girl I had followed sitting upona bed; while leaning against the wall, a dirty clay pipe in her mouth,was the vilest old woman I have ever in my life set eyes on. She wasvery small, with a pinched-up nut-cracker face, dressed in an old bit oftawdry finery, more than three sizes too large for her. Her hair fellupon her shoulders in a tangled mass, and from under it her eyes gleamedout like those of a wicked little Scotch terrier ready to bite. As Ibent down to listen I heard her say:--
"Well, my pretty dear, and what information have you got for thegentleman, that brings you down at this time of night?"
"Only that the _coppers_ are going to start at daylight looking for the_Merry Duchess_. I heard the Inspector say so himself."
"At daylight, are they?" croaked the old hag. "Well, I wish 'em joy oftheir search, I do--them--them! Any more news, my dear?"
"The master and that long-legged slab of a Hatteras went out to-nightdown the harbour. The old man brought home a lot of money bags, but whatwas in 'em was only dummies."
"I know that, too, my dear. Nicely they was sold. Ha! ha!"
She chuckled like an old fiend, and then began to cut up another pipe oftobacco in the palm of her hand like a man. She smoked negro head, andthe reek of it came out through the keyhole to me. But the younger womanwas evidently impatient, for she rose and said:--
"When do they sail with the girl, Sally?"
"They're gone, my dear. They went at ten to-night."
At this news my heart began to throb painfully.
"They weren't long about it," said the younger girl.
"That Nikola's not long about anything," remarked the old woman.
"I hope Pipa Lannu will agree with her health--the stuck-up minx--I do!"the younger remarked spitefully. "Now where's the money he said I was tohave. Give it to me and let me be off. I shall get the sack if this isfound out."
"It was five pound I was to give yer, wasn't it?" the elder woman said.
"Ten," said the younger sharply. "No larks, Sally. I know too much foryou!"
"Oh, you know a lot, honey, don't you? Of course you'd be expected toknow more than old Aunt Sally, who's never seen anything at all,wouldn't you? Go along with you!"
"Hand me over the money, I say, and let me be off!"
"Of course you do know a lot more, don't you? There's a pound!"
While they were wrangling over the payment I crept down the passageagain to the front door. Once I had reached it, I opened it softly andwent out, closing it carefully behind me. Then I took to my heels andran down the street in the direction I had come. Inquiring my way hereand there from policemen, I eventually reached home, scaled the wall,and went across the garden to the morning-room window. This I opened,and by its help made my way into the house and upstairs. As I hadexpected that he would have gone to bed, my astonishment wasconsiderable at meeting Mr. Wetherell on the landing.
"Well, what have you discovered?" he asked anxiously as I came up tohim.
"Information of the greatest importance," I answered; "but one otherthing first. Call up your housekeeper, and tell her you have reason tobelieve that one of the maids is not in the house. Warn her not tomention you in the matter, but to discharge the girl before breakfast.By the time you've done that I'll have changed my things and be ready totell you everything."
"I'll go and rouse her at once; I'm all impatience to know what you havediscovered."
He left me and passed through the green baize door to the servants'wing; while I went to my bedroom and changed my things. This done, Ipassed into the study, where I found a meal awaiting me. To this I didample justice, for my long walk and the excitement of the evening hadgiven me an unusual appetite.
Just as I was cutting myself a third slice of beef Mr. Wetherellreturned, and informed me that the housekeeper was on the alert, andwould receive the girl on her reappearance.
"Now tell me of your doings," said the old gentleman.
I thereupon narrated all that had occurred, and when I had finished, hesaid:--
"Do you believe then that my poor girl has been carried off by Nikola tothis island called Pipa Lannu?"
"I do."
"Well, then, what are we to do to rescue her? Shall, I ask theGovernment to send a gunboat down?"
"If you think it best; but, for my own part, I must own I should actindependently of them. You don't want to make a big sensation, Ipresume; and remember, to arrest Nikola would be to open the wholeaffair."
"Then what do you propose?"
"I propose," I answered, "that we charter a small schooner, fit her out,select half a dozen trustworthy and silent men, and then take ourdeparture for Pipa Lannu. I am well acquainted with the island, and,what's more, I hold a master's certificate. We would sail in after dark,arm all our party thoroughly, and go ashore. I expect they will bekeeping your daughter a prisoner in a hut. If that is so, we willsurround it and rescue her without any trouble, and, what is betterstill, without any public scandal. What do you think?"
"I quite agree with what you say. I think it's an excellent idea; and,while you've been speaking, I too have been thinking of something.There's my old friend McMurtough, who has a nice steam yacht. I'm surehe'd be willing to let us have the use of her."
"Where does he live?--far from here?"
"His office would be best; we'll go over and see him directly afterbreakfast if you like."
"By all means. Now I think I'll go and take a little nap; I feel quiteworn out. When the Inspector arrives you will be able to explain allthat has happened; but I think I should ask him to keep a quiet tonguein his head about the island. If it leaks out at all, it may warn them,and they'll be off elsewhere--to a place perhaps where we may not beable to find them."
"I'll remember," said Mr. Wetherell, and thereupon I retired to my room,and, having partially undressed, threw myself upon my bed. In less thantwo minutes I was fast asleep, never waking until the first gong soundedfor breakfast; then, after a good bath, which refreshed me wonderfully,I dressed in my usual habiliments, and went downstairs. Mr. Wetherelland the Marquis were in the dining-room, and when I entered both he andthe Marquis, who held a copy of the _Sydney Morning Herald_ in his hand,seemed prodigiously excited.
"I say, Mr. Hatteras," said the latter (after I had said"Good-morning"), "here's an advertisement which is evidently intendedfor you!"
"What is it about?" I asked. "Who wants to advertise for me?"
"Read for yourself," said the Marquis, giving me the paper.
I took it, and glanced down the column to which he referred me until Icame to the following:--
"Richard Hatteras.--If this should meet the eye of Mr. Richard Hatteras,of Thursday Island, Torres Straits, lately returned from England, andbelieved to be now in Sydney; he is earnestly requested to call at theoffice of Messrs. Dawson & Gladman, Solicitors, Castlereagh Street,where he will hear of something to his advantage."
There could be no doubt at all that I was the person referred to; butwhat could be the reason of it all? What was there that I could possiblyhear to my advantage, save news of Phyllis, and it would be mostunlikely that I would learn anything about the movements of the gang whohad abducted her from a firm of first-class solicitors such as Iunderstood Messrs. Dawson & Gladman to be. However, it was no usewondering about it, so I dismissed the matter from my mind for thepresent, and took my place at the table. In the middle of the meal thebutler left the room, in response to a ring at the front door. When hereturned, it was to inform me that a man was in the hall, who wished tohave a few moments' conversation with me. Asking Mr. Wetherell to excuseme, I left the room.
In the hall I found a seedy-looking individual of about middle age. Hebowed, and on learning that my name was Hatteras, asked if he might bepermitted five minutes alone with me. In response, I led him to themorning-room, and having closed the door, pointed to a seat. "What isyour business?" I inquired, when he had sat down.
"It is rather a curious affair to approach, Mr. Hatteras," the manbegan. "But to commence, may I be permitted to suggest that you areuneasy in your mind about a person who has disappeared?"
"You may certainly suggest that, if you like," I answered cautiously.
"If it were in a man's power to furnish a clue regarding that person'swhereabouts, it might be useful to you, I suppose," he continued,craftily watching me out of the corners of his eyes.
"Very useful," I replied. "Are you in a position to do so?"
"I might possibly be able to afford you some slight assistance," he wenton. "That is, of course, provided it were made worth my while."
"What do you call 'worth your while'?"
"Well, shall we say five hundred pounds? That's not a large sum forreally trustworthy information. I ought to ask a thousand, consideringthe danger I'm running in mixing myself up with the affair. Only I'm afather myself, and that's why I do it."
"I see. Well, let me tell you, I consider five hundred too much."
"Well then I'm afraid we can't trade. I'm sorry."
"So am I. But I'm not going to buy a pig in a poke."
"Shall we say four hundred, then?"
"No. Nor three--two, or one. If your information is worth anything, Idon't mind giving you fifty pounds for it. But I won't give a halfpennymore."
As I spoke, I rose as if to terminate the interview. Instantly myvisitor adopted a different tone.
"My fault is my generosity," he said. "It's the ruin of me. Well, youshall have it for fifty. Give me the money, and I'll tell you."
"By no means," I answered. "I must hear the information first. Trust tomy honour. If what you tell me is worth anything, I'll give you fiftypounds for it. Now what is it?"
"Well, sir, to begin with, you must understand that I was standing atthe corner of Pitt Street an evening or two back, when two men passed metalking earnestly together. One of 'em was a tall strapping fellow, theother a little chap. I never saw two eviller looking rascals in my life.Just as they came alongside me, one says to the other, 'Don't be afraid;I'll have the girl at the station all right at eight o'clock sharp.' Theother said something that I could not catch, and then I lost sight ofthem. But what I had heard stuck in my head, and so I accordingly wentoff to the station, arriving there a little before the hour. I hadn'tbeen there long before the smallest of the two chaps I'd seen in thestreet came on to the platform, and began looking about him. By the faceof him he didn't seem at all pleased at not finding the other manwaiting for him. A train drew up at the platform, and presently, justbefore it started, I saw the other and a young lady wearing a heavy veilcome quickly along. The first man saw them, and gave a little cry ofdelight. 'I thought you'd be too late,' says he. 'No fear of that,' saysthe other, and jumps into a first-class carriage, telling the girl toget in after him, which she does, crying the while, as I could see. Thenthe chap on the platform says to the other who was leaning out of thewindow, 'Write to me from Bourke, and tell me how she gets on.' 'Youbet,' says his friend. 'And don't you forget to keep your eye onHatteras.' 'Don't you be afraid,' answered the man on the platform. Thenthe guard whistled, and the train went out of the station. Directly Iwas able to I got away, and first thing this morning came on here. Nowyou have my information, and I'll trouble you for that fifty pound."
"Not so fast, my friend. Your story seems very good, but I want to ask afew questions first. Had the bigger man--the man who went up to Bourke,a deep cut over his left eye?"
"Now I come to think of it, he had. I'd forgotten to tell you that."
"So it was he, then? But are you certain it was Miss Wetherell? Remembershe wore a veil. Could you see if her hair was flaxen in colour?"
"Very light it was; but I couldn't see rightly which colour it was."
"You're sure it was a light colour?"
"Quite sure. I could swear to it in a court of law if you wanted me to."
"That's all right then, because it shows me your story is a fabrication.Come, get out of this house or I'll throw you out. You scoundrel, fortwo pins I'd give you such a thrashing as you'd remember all your life!"
"None o' that, governor. Don't you try it on. Hand us over that fiftyquid."
With that the scoundrel whipped out a revolver and pointed it at me. Butbefore he could threaten again I had got hold of his wrist with onehand, snatched the pistol with the other, and sent him sprawling on hisback upon the carpet.
"Now, you brute," I cried, "what am I going to do with you, do youthink? Get up and clear out of the house before I take my boot to you."
He got up and began to brush his clothes.
"I want my fifty pound," he cried.
"You'll get more than you want if you come here again," I said. "Out yougo!"
With that I got him by the collar and dragged him out of the room acrossthe hall, much to the butler's astonishment, through the front door, andthen kicked him down the steps. He fell in a heap on the gravel.
"All right, my fine bloke," he said as he lay there; "you wait till Iget you outside. I'll fix you up, and don't you make no mistake."
I went back to the dining-room without paying any attention to histhreats. Both Mr. Wetherell and Beckenham had been witnesses of what hadoccurred, and now they questioned me concerning his visit. I gave theman outline of the story the man had told me and convinced them of itsabsurdity. Then Mr. Wetherell rose to his feet.
"Now shall we go and see McMurtough?"
"Certainly," I said; "I'll be ready as soon as you are."
"You will come with us, I hope, Lord Beckenham?" Wetherell said.
"With every pleasure," answered his lordship, and thereupon we went offto get ready.
Three-quarters of an hour later we were sitting in Mr. McMurtough'soffice. The upshot of the interview was that Mr. McMurtough fell in withour plans as soon as we had uttered them, and expressed himselfdelighted to lend his yacht in such a good cause.
"I only wish I could come with you," he said; "but unfortunately that isquite impossible. However, you are more than welcome to my boat. I willgive you a letter, or send one to the Captain, so that she may beprepared for sea to-day. Will you see about provisioning her, or shallI?"
"We will attend to that," said Wetherell. "All the expenses must ofcourse be mine."
"As you please about that, my old friend," returned McMurtough.
"Where is she lying?" asked Wetherell.
The owner gave us the direction, and then having sincerely thanked him,we set off in search of her. She was a nice craft of about a hundred andfifty tons burden, and looked as if she ought to be a good sea boat.Chartering a wherry, we were pulled off to her. The captain was belowwhen we arrived, but a hail brought him on deck. Mr. Wetherell thenexplained our errand, and gave him his owner's letter. He read itthrough, and having done so, said--
"I am at your service, gentlemen. From what Mr. McMurtough says here Igather that there is no time to lose, so with your permission I'll getto work at once."
"Order all the coal you want, and tell the steward to do the same foranything he may require in his department. The bills must be sent in tome."
"Very good, Mr. Wetherell. And what time will you be ready?"
"As soon as you are. Can you get away by three o'clock this afternoon,think you?"
"Well, it will be a bit of a scramble, but I think we can manage it.Anyhow, I'll do my best, you may be sure of that, sir."
"I'm sure you will. There is grave need for it. Now we'll go back andarrange a few matters ashore. My man shall bring our baggage down lateron."
"Very good, sir. I'll have your berths prepared."
With that we descended to the boat again, and were pulled ashore.Arriving there, Mr. Wetherell asked what we should do first.
"Hadn't we better go up to the town and purchase a few rifles and someammunition?" I said. "We can have them sent down direct to the boat."
"A very good suggestion. Let us go at once."
We accordingly set off for George Street--to a shop I remembered havingseen. There we purchased half a dozen Winchester repeaters, with a goodsupply of ammunition. They were to be sent down to the yacht withoutfail that morning. This done, we stood on the pavement debating what weshould do next. Finally it was decided that Mr. Wetherell and Beckenhamshould go home to pack, while I made one or two other small purchases,and then join them. Accordingly, bidding them good-bye, I went on downthe street, completed my business, and was about to hail a cab andfollow them, when a thought struck me: Why should I not visit Messrs.Dawson & Gladman, and find out why they were advertising for me? This Idetermined to do, and accordingly set off for Castlereagh Street.
In a small room leading off the main passage, three clerks were seated.To them I addressed myself, asking if I might see the partners.
"Mr. Dawson is the only one in town, sir," said the boy to whom I spoke."If you'll give me your name, I'll take it in to him."
"My name is Hatteras," I said. "Mr. Richard Hatteras."
In less than two minutes the clerk returned, and begged me to followhim, which I did. At the end of a long passage we passed through acurtained doorway, and I stood in the presence of the chief partner.
"I have great pleasure in making your acquaintance, Mr. Hatteras," hesaid, as I came to an anchor in a chair. "You noticed our advertisement,I presume?"
"I saw it this morning," I answered. "And it is on that account I amhere."
"One moment before we proceed any further. Forgive what I am about tosay--but you will see yourself that it is a point I am compelled not toneglect. Can you convince me as to your identity?"
"Very easily," I replied, diving my hand into my breast-pocket andtaking out some papers. "First and foremost, here is my bank-book. Hereis my card-case. And here are two or three letters addressed to me byLondon and Sydney firms. The Hon. Sylvester Wetherell, ColonialSecretary, will be glad, I'm sure, to vouch for me. Is that sufficientto convince you?"
"More than sufficient," he answered, smiling. "Now let me tell you forwhat purpose we desired you to call upon us." Here he opened a drawerand took out a letter. "First and foremost, you must understand that weare the Sydney agents of Messrs, Atwin, Dobbs & Forsyth, of Furnival'sInn, London. From them, by the last English mail, we received thisletter. I gather that you are the son of James Dymoke Hatteras, who wasdrowned at sea in the year 1880?"
"I am."
"Your father was the third son of Sir Edward Hatteras of Murdlestone, inthe county of Hampshire?"
"He was."
"And the brother of Sir William, who had one daughter, Gwendoline Mary?"
"That is so."
"Well, Mr. Hatteras, it is my sad duty to inform you that within a weekof your departure from England your cousin, the young lady just referredto, was drowned by accident in a pond near her home, and that herfather, who had been ailing for some few days, died of heart disease onhearing the sad tidings. In that case, so my correspondents inform me,there being no nearer issue, you succeed to the title and estates--whichI also learn are of considerable value, including the house and park,ten farms, and a large amount of house property, a rent roll of fifteenthousand a year, and accumulated capital of nearly a hundred thousandpounds."
"Good gracious! Is this really true?"
"Quite true. You can examine the letter for yourself."
I took it up from the table and read it through, hardly able to believemy eyes.
"You are indeed a man to be envied, Mr. Hatteras," said the lawyer. "Thetitle is an old one, and I believe the property is considered one of thebest in that part of England."
"It is! But I can hardly believe that it is really mine."
"There is no doubt about that, however. You are a baronet as certainlyas I am a lawyer. I presume you would like us to take whatever action isnecessary?"
"By all means. This afternoon I am leaving Sydney, for a week or two,for the Islands. I will sign any papers when I come back."
"I will bear that in mind. And your address in Sydney is----"
"Care of the Honourable Sylvester Wetherell, Potts Point."
"Thank you. And, by the way, my correspondents have desired me on theirbehalf to pay in to your account at the Oceania the sum of five thousandpounds. This I will do to-day."
"I am obliged to you. Now I think I must be going. To tell the truth, Ihardly know whether I am standing on my head or my heels."
"Oh, you will soon get over that."
"Good-morning."
"Good-morning, Sir Richard."
With that, I bade him farewell, and went out of the office, feelingquite dazed by my good fortune. I thought of the poor idiot whose endhad been so tragic, and of the old man as I had last seen him, shakinghis fist at me from the window of the house. And to think that thatlovely home was mine, and that I was a baronet, the principalrepresentative of a race as old as any in the country-side! It seemedtoo wonderful to be true!
Hearty were the congratulations showered upon me at Potts Point, you maybe sure, when I told my tale, and my health was drunk at lunch with muchgoodwill. But our minds were too much taken up with the arrangements forour departure that afternoon to allow us to think very much of anythingelse. By two o'clock we were ready to leave the house, by half-past wewere on board the yacht, at three-fifteen the anchor was up, and a fewmoments later we were ploughing our way down the harbour.
Our search for Phyllis had reached another stage.



CHAPTER V
THE ISLANDS, AND WHAT WE FOUND THERE

To those who have had no experience of the South Pacific the constantlyrecurring beauties of our voyage would have seemed like a foretaste ofHeaven itself. From Sydney, until the Loyalty Group lay behind us, wehad one long spell of exquisite weather. By night under the winkingstars, and by day in the warm sunlight, our trim little craft ploughedher way across smooth seas, and our only occupation was to promenade orloaf about the decks and to speculate as to the result of the expeditionupon which we had embarked.
Having sighted the Isle of Pines we turned our bows almost due north andheaded for the New Hebrides. Every hour our impatience was growinggreater. In less than two days, all being well, we should be at ourdestination, and twenty-four hours after that, if our fortune proved inthe ascendant, we ought to be on our way back with Phyllis in ourpossession once more. And what this would mean to me I can only leaveyou to guess.
One morning, just as the faint outline of the coast of Aneityum waspeering up over the horizon ahead, Wetherell and I chanced to be sittingin the bows. The sea was as smooth as glass, and the tinkling of thewater round the little vessel's nose as she turned it off in snowy linesfrom either bow, was the only sound to be heard. As usual theconversation, after wandering into other topics, came back to thesubject nearest our hearts. This led us to make a few remarks anentNikola and his character. I could not help asking him for anexplanation.
"You want to know how it is that I am so frightened of Nikola?" heasked. "Well, to give you my reason will necessitate my telling you astory. I don't mind doing that at all, but what I am afraid of is thatyou may be inclined to doubt its probability. However, if you want tohear it you shall."
"I should like to above all things," I replied. "I have been longing toask you about it for some time past, but could not quite screw up mycourage."
"Well, in the first place," Mr. Wetherell said, "you must understandthat before I became a Minister of the Crown, or indeed a Member ofParliament at all, I was a barrister with a fairly remunerativepractice. That was before my wife's death and when Phyllis was atschool. Up to the time I am going to tell you about I had taken part inno very sensational case. But my opportunity for earning notoriety was,though I did not know it, near at hand. One day I was briefed to defenda man accused of the murder of a Chinaman aboard a Sydney vessel on avoyage from Shanghai. At first there seemed to be no doubt at all as tohis guilt, but by a singular chance, with the details of which I willnot bore you, I hit upon a scheme which got him off. I remember the manperfectly, and a queer fellow he was, half-witted, I thought, and at thetime of the trial within an ace of dying of consumption. His gratitudewas the more pathetic because he had not the wherewithal to pay me.However, he made it up to me in another way.
"One wet night, a couple of months or so after the trial, I was sittingin my drawing-room listening to my wife's music, when a servant enteredto tell me that a woman wanted to see me. I went out into the passage tofind waiting there a tall buxom lass of about five-and-twenty years ofage. She was poorly dressed, but in a great state of excitement.
"'Are you Mr. Wetherell?' she said; 'the gentleman as defended ChinaPete in the trial the other day?'
"'I am,' I answered. 'What can I do for you? I hope China Pete is not introuble again?'
"'He's in a worse trouble this time, sir,' said the woman. 'He's dyin',and he sent me to fetch you to 'im before he goes.'
"'But what does he want me for?' I asked rather suspiciously.
"'I'm sure I dunno,' was the girl's reply. 'But he's been callin' foryou all this blessed day: "Send for Mr. Wetherell! send for Mr.Wetherell!" So off I came, when I got back from work, to fetch you. Ifyou're comin', sir, you'd best be quick, for he won't last tillmornin'.'
"'Very well, I'll come with you at once,' I said. Then, having told mywife not to sit up for me, I followed my strange messenger out of thehouse.
"For nearly an hour we walked on and on, plunging deeper into the lowerquarter of the town. All through the march my guide maintained a rigidsilence, walking a few paces ahead, and only recognizing the fact that Iwas following her by nodding in a certain direction whenever we arrivedat cross thoroughfares or interlacing lanes.
"At last we arrived at the street she wanted. At the corner she camesuddenly to a standstill, and putting her two first fingers into hermouth blew a shrill whistle, after the fashion of street boys. A momentlater a shock-headed urchin about ten years old made his appearance froma dark alley and came towards us. The woman said something to him, whichI did not catch, and then turning sharply to her left hand beckoned tome to follow her.
"From the street itself we passed, by way of a villainous alley, into alarge courtyard, where brooded a silence like that of death. Indeed, amore weird and desolate place I don't remember ever to have met with.Not a soul was to be seen, and though it was surrounded by houses, onlytwo feeble lights showed themselves. Towards one of these my guide madeher way, stopping on the threshold. Upon a panel she rapped with herfingers, and as she did so a window on the first floor opened, and theboy we had met in the street looked out.
"'How many?' inquired the woman, who had brought me, in a loud whisper.
"'None now,' replied the boy; 'but there's been a power of Chinkieshereabouts all the evenin', an' 'arf an hour ago there was a gent in acloak.'
"Without waiting to hear any more the woman entered the house and Ifollowed close on her heels. The adventure was clearly coming to a headnow.
"When the door had been closed behind us the boy appeared at the top ofa flight of stairs with a lighted candle. We accordingly ascended tohim, and having done so made our way towards a door at the end of theabominably dirty landing. At intervals I could hear the sound ofcoughing coming from a room at the end. My companion, however, bade mestop, while she went herself into the room, shutting the door after her.I was left alone with the boy, who immediately took me under hisprotection, and for my undivided benefit performed a series of highlymeritorious acrobatic performances upon the feeble banisters, to his owndanger, but apparent satisfaction. Suddenly, just as he was about tocommence what promised to be the most successful item in his_repertoire_, he paused, lay flat on his stomach upon the floor, andcraned his head over the side, where once banisters had been, and gazedinto the half dark well below. All was quiet as the grave. Then, withoutwarning, an almond-eyed, pigtailed head appeared on the stairs andlooked upwards. Before I could say anything to stop him, the youth haddivested himself of his one slipper, taken it in his right hand, leanedover a bit farther, and struck the ascending Celestial a severe blow onthe mouth with the heel of it. There was the noise of a hasty descentand the banging of the street door a moment later, then all was stillagain, and the youngster turned to me.
"'That was Ah Chong,' he said confidentially. 'He's the sixth ChinkieI've landed that way since dark.'
"This important piece of information he closed with a double-jointedoath of remarkable atrocity, and, having done so, would have recommencedthe performance of acrobatic feats had I not stopped him by asking thereason of his action. He looked at me with a grin,--
"'I dunno, but all I cares is that China Pete in there gives me a sprat(sixpence) for every Chinkie what I keeps out of the 'ouse. He's a rumone is China Pete; an' can't he cough--my word!" he concluded.
"I was about to put another question when the door opened and the girlwho had brought me to the house beckoned me into the room. I entered andshe left me alone with the occupant.
"Of all the filthy places I have ever seen--and I have had the ill-luckto discover a good many in my time--that one eclipsed them all. On thebed, propped up by pillows and evidently in the last stage of collapse,was the man called China Pete. When we were alone together he pointed toa box near the bed and signified that I should seat myself. I did so, atthe same time taking occasion to express my sorrow at finding him inthis lamentable condition. He made no reply to my civilities, but aftera little pause found strength enough to whisper. 'See if there's anybodyat the door.' I went across, opened the door and looked into thepassage, but save the boy, who was now sitting on the top step of thestairs at the other end, there was not a soul in sight. I told him this,and having again closed the door, sat down on the box and waited for himto speak.
"'You did me a good turn, Mr. Wetherell, over that trial,' the invalidsaid at last, 'and I couldn't make it worth your while.'
"'Oh, you mustn't let that worry you,' I answered soothingly. 'You wouldhave paid me if you had been able.'
"'Perhaps I should, perhaps I shouldn't, anyhow I didn't, and I want tomake it up to you now. Feel under my pillow and bring out what you findthere.'
"I did as he directed me and brought to light a queer little woodenstick about three and a half inches long, made of some heavy timber andcovered all over with Chinese inscriptions; at one end was a tiny bit ofheavy gold cord much tarnished. I gave it to him and he looked at itfondly.
"'Do you know the value of this little stick?' he asked after a while.
"'I have no possible notion,' I replied.
"'Make a guess,' he said.
"To humour him I guessed five pounds. He laughed with scorn.
"'Five pounds! O ye gods! Why, as a bit of stick it's not worth fivepence, but for what it really is there is not money enough in the worldto purchase it. If I could get about again I would make myself therichest and most powerful man on earth with it. If you could only guessone particle of the dangers I've been through to get it you would die ofastonishment. And the irony of it all is that now I've got it I can'tmake use of it. On six different occasions the priests of the Llamaseraiin Peking have tried to murder me to get hold of it. I brought it downfrom the centre of China disguised as a wandering beggar. That businessconnected with the murder of the Chinaman on board the ship, againstwhich you defended me, was on account of it. And now I lie here dyinglike a dog, with the key to over ten millions in my hand. Nikola hastried for five years to obtain it, without success however. He littledreams I've got it after all. If he did I'd be a dead man by now.'
"'Who is this Nikola then?' I asked.
"'Dr. Nikola? Well, he's Nikola, and that's all I can tell you. Ifyou're a wise man you'll want to know no more. Ask the Chinese mothersnursing their almond-eyed spawn in Peking who he is; ask the Japanese,ask the Malays, the Hindoos, the Burmese, the coal porters in Port Said,the Buddhist priests of Ceylon; ask the King of Corea, the men up inThibet, the Spanish priests in Manilla, or the Sultan of Borneo, theministers of Siam, or the French in Saigon--they'll all know Dr. Nikolaand his cat, and, take my word, they fear him.'
"I looked at the little stick in my hand and wondered if the man hadgone mad.
"'What do you wish me to do with this?' I asked.
"'Take it away with you,' he answered, 'and guard it like your life, andwhen you have occasion, use it. Remember you have in your hand what willraise a million men and the equivalent of over ten mil----'
"At this point a violent fit of coughing seized him and nearly tore himto pieces. I lifted him up a little in the bed, but before I could takemy hands away a stream of blood had gushed from his lips. Like a flashof thought I ran to the door to call the girl, the boy on the stairsre-echoed my shout, and in less time than it takes to tell the woman wasin the room. But we were too late--_China Pete was dead_.
"After giving her all the money I had about me to pay for the funeral, Ibade her good-bye, and with the little stick in my pocket returned to myhome. Once there I sat myself down in my study, took my legacy out of mypocket and carefully examined it. As to its peculiar power and value, asdescribed to me by the dead man, I hardly knew what to think. My ownprivate opinion was that China Pete was not sane at the time he told me.And yet, how was I to account for the affray with the Chinaman on theboat, and the evident desire the Celestials in Sydney had to obtaininformation concerning it? After half an hour's consideration of it Ilocked it up in a drawer of my safe and went upstairs to bed.
"Next day China Pete was buried, and by the end of the month I hadwell-nigh forgotten that he had ever existed, and had hardly thought ofhis queer little gift, which still reposed in the upper drawer of mysafe. But I was to hear more of it later on.
"One night, about a month after my coming into possession of the stick,my wife and I entertained a few friends at dinner.
"As the clock struck eleven I said good-night to the last of my guestsupon the door-step. The carriage had not gone fifty yards down thestreet before a hansom drew up before my door and a man dressed in aheavy cloak jumped out. Bidding the driver wait for him he ran up mysteps.
"'Mr. Wetherell, I believe?' he said. I nodded and wished him'good-evening,' at the same time asking his business.
"'I will tell you with pleasure,' he answered, 'if you will permit mefive minutes alone with you. It is most important, and as I leave Sydneyearly to-morrow morning you will see that there is not much time tospare.'
"I led the way into the house and to my study, which was in the rear,overlooking the garden. Once there I bade him be seated, taking up myposition at my desk.
"Then, in the light of the lamp, I became aware of the extraordinarypersonality of my visitor. He looked at me very searchingly for a momentand then said: 'My business will surprise you a little I expect, Mr.Wetherell. First, if you will allow me I will tell you something aboutmyself and then ask you a question. You must understand that I am prettywell known as an Eastern traveller; from Port Said to the Kuriles thereis hardly a place with which I am not acquainted. I have a hobby. I am acollector of Eastern curios, but there is one thing I have never beenable to obtain.'
"'And that is?'
"'A Chinese executioner's symbol of office.'
"'But how can I help you in that direction?' I asked, completelymystified.
"'By selling me one that has lately come into your possession,' he said.'It is a little black stick, about three inches long and covered withChinese characters. I happened to hear, quite by chance, that you hadone in your possession, and I have taken a journey of some thousands ofmiles to endeavour to purchase it from you.'
"I went across to the safe, unlocked it, and took out the little stickChina Pete had given me. When I turned round I almost dropped it withsurprise as I saw the look of eagerness that rose in my visitor's face.But he pulled himself together and said, as calmly as he had yetaddressed me:
"'That is the very thing. If you will allow me to purchase it, it willcomplete my collection. What value do you place upon it?'
"'I have no sort of notion of its worth,' I answered, putting it down onthe table and looking at it. Then in a flash a thought came into mybrain, and I was about to speak when he addressed me again.
"'Of course my reason for wishing to buy it is rather a hare-brainedone, but if you care to let me have it I will give you fifty pounds forit with pleasure.'
"'Not enough, Dr. Nikola,' I said with a smile.
"He jumped as if he had been shot, and then clasped his hands tight onthe arm of his chair. My random bolt had gone straight to the heart ofthe bulls-eye. This man then _was_ Dr. Nikola, the extraordinaryindividual against whom China Pete had warned me. I was determined nowthat, come what might, he should not have the stick.
"'Do you not consider the offer I make you a good one then, Mr.Wetherell?' he asked.
"'I'm sorry to say I don't think the stick is for sale,' I answered. 'Itwas left to me by a man in return for a queer sort of service I renderedhim, and I think I should like to keep it as a souvenir.'
"'I will raise my offer to a hundred pounds in that case,' said Nikola.
"'I would rather not part with it,' I said, and as I spoke, as if toclinch the matter, I took it up and returned it to the safe, taking careto lock the door upon it.
"'I will give you five hundred pounds for it,' cried Nikola, nowthoroughly excited. 'Surely that will tempt you?'
'I'm afraid an offer of ten times that amount would make no difference,'I replied, feeling more convinced than ever that I would not part withit.
"He laid himself back in his chair, and for nearly a minute and a halfstared me full in the face. You have seen Nikola's eyes, so I needn'ttell you what a queer effect they are able to produce. I could notwithdraw mine from them, and I felt that if I did not make an effort Ishould soon be mesmerized. So, pulling myself together, I sprang from mychair, and, by doing so, let him see that our interview was at an end.However, he was not going without a last attempt to drive a bargain.When he saw that I was not to be moved his temper gave way, and hebluntly told me that I would _have_ to sell it.
"'There is no compulsion in the matter,' I said warmly. 'The curio is myown property, and I will do just as I please with it.'
"He thereupon begged my pardon, asked me to attribute his impatience tothe collector's eagerness, and after a few last words bade me'good-night,' and left the house.
"When his cab had rolled away I went back to my study and sat thinkingfor awhile. Then something prompted me to take the stick out from thesafe. I did so, and sat at my table gazing at it, wondering what themystery might be to which it was the key. That it was not what Dr.Nikola had described it I felt certain.
"At the end of half an hour I put it in my pocket, intending to take itupstairs to show my wife, locked the safe again and went off to mydressing-room. When I had described the interview and shown the stick tomy wife I placed it in the drawer of the looking-glass and went to bed.
"Next morning, about three o'clock, I was awakened by the sound of someone knocking violently at my door. I jumped out of bed and inquired whoit might be. To my intense surprise the answer was 'Police!' I thereforedonned my dressing-gown, and went out to find a sergeant of police onthe landing waiting for me.
"'What is the matter?' I cried.
"'A burglar!' was his answer. 'We've got him downstairs; caught him inthe act.'
"I followed the officer down to the study. What a scene was there! Thesafe had been forced, and its contents lay scattered in every direction.One drawer of my writing-table was wide open, and in a corner,handcuffed, and guarded by a stalwart constable, stood a Chinaman.
"Well, to make a long story short, the man was tried, and after denyingall knowledge of Nikola--who, by the way, could not be found--wasconvicted, and sentenced to five years' hard labour. For a month I heardno more about the curio. Then a letter arrived from an English solicitorin Shanghai, demanding from me, on behalf of a Chinaman residing in thatplace, a little wooden stick covered with Chinese characters, which wassaid to have been stolen by an Englishman, known in Shanghai as ChinaPete. This was very clearly another attempt on Nikola's part to obtainpossession of it, so I replied to the effect that I could not entertainthe request.
"A month or so later--I cannot, however, be particular as to the exactdate--I found myself again in communication with Nikola, this time fromSouth America. But there was this difference this time: he usedundisguised threats, not only against myself, in the event of my stillrefusing to give him what he wanted, but also against my wife anddaughter. I took no notice, with the result that my residence was againbroken into, but still without success. Now I no longer locked thetalisman up in the safe, but hid it in a place where I knew no one couldpossibly find it. My mind, you will see, was perfectly made up; I wasnot going to be driven into surrendering it.
"One night, a month after my wife's death, returning to my house I wasgarrotted and searched within a hundred yards of my own front door, butmy assailants could not find it on me. Then peculiar pressure from otherquarters was brought to bear; my servants were bribed, and my lifebecame almost a burden to me. What was more, I began to develop thatextraordinary fear of Nikola which seems to seize upon every one who hasany dealings with him. When I went home to England some months back, Idid it because my spirits had got into such a depressed state that Icould not remain in Australia. But I took care to deposit the stick withmy plate in the bank before I left. There it remained till I returned,when I put it back in its old hiding-place again.
"The day after I reached London I happened to be crossing TrafalgarSquare. Believing that I had left him at least ten thousand miles away,you may imagine my horror when I saw Dr. Nikola watching me from theother side of the road. Then and there I returned to my hotel, badePhyllis pack with all possible despatch, and that same afternoon westarted to return to Australia. The rest you know. Now what do you thinkof it all?"
"It's an extraordinary story. Where is the stick at the present moment?"
"In my pocket. Would you like to see it?"
"Very much, if you would permit me to do so."
He unbuttoned his coat, and from a carefully contrived pocket under thearm drew out a little piece of wood of exactly the length and shape hehad described. I took it from him and gazed at it carefully. It wascovered all over with Chinese writing, and had a piece of gold silkattached to the handle. There was nothing very remarkable about it; butI must own I was strangely fascinated by it when I remembered the miseryit had caused, the changes and chances it had brought about, the weirdstory told by China Pete, and the efforts that had been made by Nikolato obtain possession of it. I gave it back to its owner, and then stoodlooking out over the smooth sea, wondering where Phyllis was and whatshe was doing. Nikola, when I met him, would have a heavy account tosettle with me, and if my darling reported any further cruelty on hispart I would show no mercy. But why had Mr. Wetherell brought the curiowith him now? I put the question.
"For one very good reason," he answered. "If it is the stick Nikola isafter, as I have every right to suppose, he may demand it as a ransomfor my girl, and I am quite willing to let him have it. The wretchedthing has caused sufficient misery to make me only too glad to be rid ofit."
"I hope, however, we shall be able to get her without giving it up," Isaid. "Now let us go aft to lunch."
The day following we were within a hundred miles of our destination, andby mid-day of the day following that again were near enough to render itadvisable to hold a council over our intended movements. Accordingly, alittle before lunch time the Marquis, Wetherell, the skipper and myself,met under the after awning to consider our plan of war.
"The first matter to be taken into consideration, I think, Mr.Wetherell," said the skipper, "is the point as to which side of theisland we shall bring up on."
"You will be able to settle that," answered Wetherell, looking at me."You are acquainted with the place, and can best advise us."
"I will do so to the best of my ability," I said, sitting down on thedeck and drawing an outline with a piece of chalk. "The island is shapedlike this. There is no reef. Here is the best anchorage, without doubt,but here is the point where we shall be most likely to approach withoutbeing observed. The trend of the land is all upward from the shore, and,as far as I remember, the most likely spot for a hut, if they aredetaining Miss Wetherell there, as we suppose, will be on a littleplateau looking south, and hard by the only water on the island."
"And what sort of anchorage shall we get there, do you think?" asked theskipper, who very properly wished to run no risk with his owner's boat.
"Mostly coral. None too good, perhaps, but as we shall have steam up,quite safe enough."
"And how do you propose that we shall reach the hut when we land?"
"I have been thinking that out," I said, "and I have come to theconclusion that the best plan would be for us to approach the islandafter dark, to heave to about three miles out and pull ashore in theboat. We will then ascend the hill by the eastern slope and descend uponthem. They will probably not expect us from that quarter, and it will atleast be easier than climbing the hill in the face of a heavy fire. Whatdo you say?"
They all agreed that it seemed practicable.
"Very good then," said the skipper, "we'll have lunch, and afterwardsbegin our preparations." Then turning to me, "I'll get you to come intomy cabin, Mr. Hatteras, by-and-by and take a look at the Admiraltychart, if you will. You will be able probably to tell me if you think itcan be relied on."
"I'll do so with pleasure," I answered, and then we went below.
Directly our meal was over I accompanied the skipper to look at thechart, and upon it we marked our anchorage. Then an adjournment was madeaft, and our equipment of rifles and revolvers thoroughly overhauled. Wehad decided earlier that our landing party should consist of eightmen--Wetherell, Beckenham, the mate of the yacht, myself, and four ofthe crew, each of whom would be supplied with a Winchester repeatingrifle, a revolver, and a dozen cartridges. Not a shot was to be fired,however, unless absolutely necessary, and the greatest care was to betaken in order to approach the hut, if possible, without disturbing itsinmates.
When the arms had been distributed and carefully examined, the sixteenfoot surf-boat was uncovered and preparations made for hoisting heroverboard. By the time this was done it was late in the afternoon, andalmost soon enough for us to be thinking about overcoming the distancewhich separated us from our destination.
About dusk I was standing aft, leaning against the taff-rail, whenBeckenham came up and stood beside me. It was wonderful what adifference these few months had made in him; he was now as brown as aberry, and as fine-looking a young fellow as any man could wish to see.
"We shall be picking up the island directly," I said as he came to ananchor alongside me. "Do you think you ought to go to-night? Rememberyou will run the risk of being shot!"
"I have thought of that," he said. "I believe it's my duty to do my bestto help you and Mr. Wetherell."
"But what would your father say if he knew?"
"He would say that I only did what was right. I have just been writingto him, telling him everything. If anything _should_ happen to me youwill find the letter on the chest of drawers in your cabin. I know youwill send it on to him. But if we both come out of it safely and rescueMiss Wetherell I'm going to ask a favour."
"Granted before I know what it is!"
"It isn't a very big one. I want you to let me be your best man at yourwedding?"
"So you shall. And a better I could not possibly desire."
"I like to hear you say that. We've been through a good deal togethersince we left Europe, haven't we?"
"We have, and to-night will bring it to a climax, or I'm much mistaken."
"Do you think Nikola will show fight?"
"Not a doubt about it I should think. If he finds himself cornered he'llprobably fight like a demon."
"It's Baxter I want to meet."
"Nikola is my man. I've a big grudge against him, and I want to pay it."
"How little we thought when we were cruising about Bournemouth Baytogether that within such a short space of time we should be sailing theSouth Pacific on such an errand! It seems almost too strange to bepossible."
"So it does! All's well that ends well, however. Let's hope we're goingto be successful to-night. Now I'm going on the bridge to see if I canpick the land up ahead."
I left him and went forward to the captain's side. Dusk had quite fallenby this time, rendering it impossible to see very far ahead. A hand hadbeen posted in the fore-rigging as a look-out, and every moment weexpected to hear his warning cry; but nearly an hour passed, and stillit did not come.
Then suddenly the shout rang out, "Land ahead!" and we knew that ourdestination was in sight. Long before this all our lights had beenobscured, and so, in the darkness--for a thick pall of cloud covered thesky--we crept up towards the coast. Within a couple of minutes ofhearing the hail every man on board was on deck gazing in the directionin which we were proceeding.
By tea time we had brought the land considerably nearer, and by eighto'clock were within three miles of it. Not a sign, however, of any craftcould we discover, and the greatest vigilance had to be exercised on ourpart to allow no sign to escape us to show our whereabouts to thoseashore. Exactly at nine o'clock the shore party, fully armed, assembledon deck, and the surf-boat was swung overboard. Then in the darkness wecrept down the gangway and took our places. The mate was in possessionof the tiller, and when all was ready we set off for the shore.



CHAPTER VI
CONCLUSION

Once we had left her side and turned our boat's nose towards the land,the yacht lay behind us, a black mass, nearly absorbed in the generalshadow. Not a light showed itself, and everything was as still as thegrave; the only noise to be heard was the steady dip, dip of the oars inthe smooth water and now and then the chirp of the rowlocks. For nearlyhalf an hour we pulled on, pausing at intervals to listen, but nothingof an alarming nature met our ears. The island was every moment growinglarger, the beach more plain to the eye, and the hill more clearlydefined.
As soon as the boat grounded we sprang out and, leaving one hand to lookafter her, made our way ashore. It was a strange experience that landingon a strange beach on such an errand and at such an hour, but we wereall too much taken up with the work which lay before us to think ofthat. Having left the water's edge we came to a standstill beneath agroup of palms and discussed the situation. As the command of theexpedition had fallen upon me I decided upon the following course ofaction: To begin with, I would leave the party behind me and set out bymyself to ascertain the whereabouts of the hut. Having discovered this Iwould return, and we would thereupon make our way inland and endeavourto capture it. I explained the idea in as few words as possible to myfollowers, and then, bidding them wait for me where they were, at thesame time warning them against letting their presence be discovered, Iset off up the hill in the direction I knew the plateau to lie. Theundergrowth was very thick and the ground rocky; for this reason it wasnearly twenty minutes before I readied the top of the hill. Then downthe other side I crept, picking my way carefully, and taking infiniteprecautions that no noise should serve to warn our foes of my coming.
At last I reached the plateau and looked about me. A small perpendicularcliff, some sixty feet in height, was before me, so throwing myself downupon my stomach, I wriggled my way to its edge. When I got there Ilooked over and discovered three well-built huts on a little plateau atthe cliff's base. At the same moment a roar of laughter greeted my earsfrom the building on the left. It was followed by the voice of a mansinging to the accompaniment of a banjo. Under cover of his music I roseto my feet and crept back through the bushes, by the track along which Ihad come. I knew enough to distribute my forces now.
Having reached my friends again I informed them of what I had seen, andwe then arranged the mode of attack as follows: The mate of the yacht,with two of the hands, would pass round the hill to the left of theplateau, Wetherell and another couple of men would take the right side,while Beckenham and myself crept down from the back. Not a sound was tobe made or a shot fired until I blew my whistle. Then, with one lastword of caution, we started on our climb.
By this time the clouds had cleared off the sky and the stars shonebrightly. Once more I arrived at the small precipice behind the huts,and, having done so, sat down for a few moments to give the otherparties time to take up their positions. Then, signing to Beckenham toaccompany me, I followed the trend of the precipice along till Idiscovered a place where we might descend in safety. In less than aminute we were on the plateau below, creeping towards the centre hut.Still our approach was undetected. Bidding Beckenham in a whisper waitfor me, I crept cautiously round to the front, keeping as much aspossible in the shadow. As soon as I had found the door, I tiptoedtowards it and prepared to force my way inside but I had an adventure instore for me which I had not anticipated.
Seated in the doorway, almost hidden in the shadow, was the figure of aman. He must have been asleep, for he did not become aware of mypresence until I was within a foot of him. Then he sprang to his feetand was about to give the alarm. Before he could do so, however, I wasupon him. A desperate hand-to-hand struggle followed, in which I foughtsolely for his throat. This once obtained I tightened my fingers upon itand squeezed until he fell back unconscious. It was like a horriblenightmare, that combat without noise in the dark entry of the hut, and Iwas more than thankful that it ended so satisfactorily for me. As soonas I had disentangled myself, I rose to my feet and proceeded across hisbody into the hut itself. A swing door led from the porch, and this Ipushed open.
"Who is it, and what do you want?" said a voice which I should haverecognized anywhere.
In answer I took Phyllis in my arms and, whispering my name, kissed herover and over again. She uttered a little cry of astonishment anddelight. Then, bidding her step quietly, I passed out into thestarlight, leading her after me. As we were about to make for the pathby which I had descended, Beckenham stepped forward, and at the sameinstant the man with whom I had been wrestling came to his senses andgave a shout of alarm. In an instant there was a noise of scurrying feetand a great shouting of orders.
"Make for the boats!" I cried at the top of my voice, and, takingPhyllis by the hand, set off as quickly as I could go up the path,Beckenham assisting her on the other side.
If I live to be a hundred I shall never forget that rush up the hill. Inand out of trees and bushes, scratching ourselves and tearing ourclothes, we dashed; conscious only of the necessity for speed. Before wewere half-way down the other side Phyllis's strength was quiteexhausted, so I took her in my arms and carried her the remainder of thedistance. At last we reached the boat and jumped on board. The rest ofthe party were already there, and the word being given we prepared torow out to the yacht. But before we could push off a painful surprisewas in store for us. The Marquis, who had been counting the party,cried: "_Where is Mr. Wetherell?_"
We looked round upon each other, and surely enough the old gentleman wasmissing. Discovering this, Phyllis nearly gave way, and implored us togo back at once to find him. But having rescued her with so muchdifficulty I did not wish to run any risk of letting her fall into herenemies' hands again; so selecting four volunteers from the party, Ibade the rest pull the boat out to the yacht and give Miss Wetherellinto the captain's charge, while the others accompanied me ashore againin search of her father. Having done this the boat was to return andwait for us.
Quickly we splashed our way back to the beach, and then, plunging intothe undergrowth, began our search for the missing man. As we did notknow where to search, it was like looking for a needle in a bundle ofhay, but presently one of the hands remembered having seen himdescending the hill, so we devoted our attentions to that side. Fornearly two hours we toiled up and down, but without success. Not a signof the old gentleman was to be seen. Could he have mistaken his way andbe even now searching for us on another beach? To make sure of this weset off and thoroughly searched the two bays in the direction he wouldmost likely have taken. But still without success. Perhaps he had beencaptured and carried back to the huts? In that case we had betterproceed thither and try to rescue him. This, however, was a much moreserious undertaking, and you may imagine it was with considerable carethat we approached the plateau again.
When we reached it the huts were as quiet as when I had first made theiracquaintance. Not a sound came up to the top of the little precipicesave the rustling of the wind in the palms at its foot. It seemeddifficult to believe that there had been such a tumult on the spot soshort a time before.
Again with infinite care we crept down to the buildings, this time,however, without encountering a soul. The first was empty, so was thesecond, and so was the third. This result was quite unexpected, andrendered the situation even more mysterious than before.
By the time we had thoroughly explored the plateau and its surroundingsit was nearly daylight, and still we had discovered no trace of themissing man. Just as the sun rose above the sea line we descended thehill again and commenced a second search along the beach, with no betterluck, however, than on the previous occasion. Wetherell and ourassailants seemed to have completely disappeared from the island.
About six o'clock, thoroughly worn out, we returned to the spot wherethe boat was waiting for us. What was to be done? We could not forobvious reasons leave the island and abandon the old gentleman to hisfate, and yet it seemed useless to remain there looking for him, when hemight have been spirited away elsewhere.
Suddenly one of the crew, who had been loitering behind, came into viewwaving something in his hand. As he approached we could see that it wasa sheet of paper, and when he gave it into my hands I read as follows:--
_"If you cross the island to the north beach you will find a small cliffin which is a large cave, a little above high-water mark. There you willdiscover the man for whom you are searching."_
There was no signature to this epistle, and the writing was quiteunfamiliar to me, but I had no reason to doubt its authenticity.
"Where did you discover this?" I inquired of the man who had brought it.
"Fastened to one of them prickly bushes up on the beach there, sir," heanswered.
"Well, the only thing for us to do now is to set off to the north shoreand hunt for the cave. Two of you had better take the boat back to theyacht and ask the captain to follow us round."
As soon as the boat was under weigh we picked up our rifles and set offfor the north beach. It was swelteringly hot by this time, and, as maybe imagined, we were all dead tired after our long night's work.However, the men knew they would be amply rewarded if we could effectthe rescue of the man for whom we had been searching, so they pushed on.
At last we turned the cape and entered the bay which constituted thenorth end of the island. It was not a large beach on this side, but ithad, at its western end, a curious line of small cliffs, in the centreof which a small black spot could be discerned looking remarkably likethe entrance to a cave. Towards this we pressed, forgetting ourweariness in the excitement of the search.
It _was_ a cave, and a large one. So far the letter was correct.Preparing ourselves, in case of surprise, we approached the entrance,calling Mr. Wetherell's name. As our shouts died away a voice came outin answer, and thereupon we rushed in.
A remarkable sight met our eyes. In the centre of the cave was a stoutupright post, some six or eight feet in height, and securely tied tothis was the Colonial Secretary of New South Wales.
In less time almost than it takes to tell, we had cast loose the ropeswhich bound him, and led him, for he was too weak to stand alone, outinto the open air. While he was resting he inquired after his daughter,and having learned that she was safe, gave us the following explanation.Addressing himself to me he said:
"When you cried 'Make for the boats,' I ran up the hill with the othersas fast as I could go; but I'm an old man and could not get along asquickly as I wanted to, and for this reason was soon left far behind. Imust have been half-way down the hill when a tall man, dressed in white,stepped out from behind a bush, and raising a rifle bade me come to astandstill. Having no time to lift my own weapon I was obliged to do ashe ordered me, and he thereupon told me to lay down my weapon andright-about face. In this fashion I was marched back to the huts we hadjust left, and then, another man having joined my captor, was conductedacross the island to this beach, where a boat was in waiting. In it Iwas pulled out to a small schooner lying at anchor in the bay andordered to board her; five minutes later I was conducted to the saloon.
"'Good-evening, Mr. Wetherell. This is indeed a pleasure,' said a mansitting at the farther end of the table. He was playing with a big blackcat, and directly I heard his voice I knew that I was in the presence ofDr. Nikola.
"'And how do you think I am going to punish you, my friend, for givingme all this trouble?' he said when I made no reply to his first remark.
"'You dare not do anything to me,' I answered. 'I demand that you let mego this instant. I have a big score to settle with you.'
"'If you will be warned by me you will cease to demand,' he answered,his eyes the while burning like coals. 'You are an obstinate man, butthough you have put me to so much trouble and expense I will forgive youand come to terms with you. Now listen to me. If you will give me----'
"At that moment the little vessel gave a heavy roll, and in trying tokeep my footing on the sloping deck I fell over upon the table. As I didso the little Chinese stick slipped out of my pocket and went rollingalong directly into Nikola's hands. He sprang forward and seized it, andyou may imagine his delight. With a cry of triumph that made the catleap from his shoulder, he turned to a tall man by his side and said:
"'I've got it at last! Now let a boat's crew take this man ashore andtie him to the stake in the cave. Then devise some means of acquaintinghis friends of his whereabouts. Be quick, for we sail in an hour.'Having given these orders he turned to me again and said:
"'Mr. Wetherell, this is the last transaction we shall probably everhave together. All things considered, you are lucky in escaping soeasily. It would have saved you a good deal if you had complied with myrequest at first. However, all's well that ends well, and I congratulateyou upon your charming daughter. Now, good-bye; in an hour I am off toeffect a _coup_ with this stick, the magnitude of which you would neverdream. One last word of advice: pause a second time, I entreat, beforeyou think of baulking Dr. Nikola.'
"I was going to reply, when I was twisted round and led up on deck,where that scoundrel Baxter had the impudence to make me a low bow. Inless than a quarter of an hour I was fastened to the post in that cave.The rest you know. Now let us get on board; I see the boat isapproaching."
As soon as the surf-boat had drawn up on the beach we embarked and werepulled out to the yacht. In a few moments we were on deck, and Phylliswas in her father's arms again. By mid-day the island had disappearedunder the sea line, and by nightfall we were well on our way back toSydney.
That evening, after dinner, Phyllis and I patrolled the deck together,and finally came to a standstill aft. It was as beautiful an evening asany man or woman could desire. All round us was the glassy sea, risingand falling as if asleep, while overhead the tropic stars shone downwith their wonderful brilliance.
"Phyllis," I said, taking my darling's hand in mine and looking into herface, "what a series of adventures we have both passed through sincethat afternoon I first saw you in the Domain! Do you know that yourfather has at last consented to our marriage?"
"I do. And as it is to you, Dick, I owe my rescue," she said, coming alittle closer to me, "he could do nothing else; you have a perfect rightto me."
"I have, and I mean to assert it!" I answered. "If I had not found you,I should never have been happy again."
"But, Dick, there is one thing I don't at all understand. At dinner thisevening the captain addressed you as Sir Richard. What does that mean?"
"Why, of course you have not heard!" I cried. "Well, I think it meansthat though I cannot make you a marchioness, I can make you a baronet'swife. It remains with you to say whether you will be Lady Hatteras ornot." Then I explained how I had inherited the title and estates.
Her only reply was to kiss me softly on the cheek.
She had scarcely done so before her father and Beckenham came along thedeck.
"Now, Phyllis," said the former, leading her to a seat, "supposing yougive us the history of your adventures. Remember we have heard nothingyet."
"Very well. Where shall I begin? At the moment I left the house for theball? Very good. Well, you must know that when I arrived at GovernmentHouse I met Mrs. Mayford--the lady who had promised to chaperone me--inthe cloak-room, and we passed into the ball-room together. I danced thefirst dance with Captain Hackworth, one of the _aides_, and engagedmyself for the fourth to the Marquis of Beckenham."
"The sham Marquis, unfortunately," put in the real one.
"It proved to be unfortunate for me also," continued Phyllis. "As it wasa square we sat it out in the ante-room leading off the drawing-room,and while we were there the young gentleman did me the honour ofproposing to me. It was terribly embarrassing for me, but I allowed himto see, as unmistakably as possible, that I could give him noencouragement, and, as the introduction to the next waltz started, weparted the best of friends. About half an hour later, just as I wasgoing to dance the lancers, Mrs. Mayford came towards me and drew meinto the drawing-room. Mr. Baxter, his lordship's tutor, was with her,and I noticed that they both looked supernaturally grave.
"'What is the matter?' I asked, becoming alarmed by her face.
"'My dear,' said she, 'you must be brave. I have come to tell you thatyour father has been taken ill, and has sent for you.'
"'Papa ill!' I cried. 'Oh, I must go home to him at once'
"'I have taken the liberty of facilitating that,' said Mr. Baxter, 'byordering the servants to call up your carriage, which is now waiting foryou at the door. If you will allow me, I will conduct you to it?'
"I apologized to my partner for being compelled to leave him, and thenwent to the cloak-room. As soon as I was ready I accompanied Mr. Baxterto the door, where the brougham was waiting. Without looking at thecoachman I got in, at the same time thanking my escort for his kindness.He shut the door and cried 'Home' to the coachman. Next moment we werespinning down the drive.
"As I was far too much occupied thinking of you, papa, I did not noticethe direction we were taking, and it was not until the carriage stoppedbefore a house in a back street that I realized that something waswrong. Then the door was opened, and a gentleman in evening dress beggedme to alight. I did so, almost without thinking what I was doing.
"'I am sorry to say your father is not at all well, Miss Wetherell,'said the person who helped me out. 'If you will be good enough to stepinto my house I will let the nurse take you to him.'
"Like a person in a dream I followed him into the dwelling.
"'Where is my father? and how is it that he is here?' I cried, beginningto get frightened.
"'You will know all when you see him,' said my companion, throwing openthe door of a bedroom. I went in, and that door was also shut upon me.Then I turned and faced the man."
"What was he like?" cried Wetherell.
"He was the man you were telling us about at dinner--Dr. Nikola."
"Ah! And then?"
"He politely but firmly informed me that I was his prisoner, and thatuntil you gave up something he had for years been trying to obtain hewould be compelled to detain me. I threatened, entreated, and finallywept, but he was not to be moved. He promised that no effort should bespared to make me comfortable, but he could not let me go until you hadcomplied with his request. So I was kept there until late one night,when I was informed that I must be ready to leave the house. A broughamwas at the door and in this, securely guarded, I was conducted to theharbour, where a boat was in waiting. In this we were rowed out to aschooner, and I was placed on board her. A comfortably furnished cabinwas allotted to me, and everything I could possibly want was given me.But though the greatest consideration in all other matters was shown me,I could gather nothing of where we were going or what my fate was to be,nor could I discover any means of communicating with the shore. Aboutmidnight we got under weigh and commenced our voyage. Our destinationwas the island where you found me."
"And how did Nikola treat you during the voyage and your stay on PipaLannu?" I asked.
"With invariable courtesy," she replied. "A more admirable host no onecould desire. I had but to express a wish, and it was instantlygratified. When we were clear of the land I was allowed on deck; mymeals were served to me in a cabin adjoining my own, and a stewardesshad been specially engaged to wait upon me. As far as my own treatmentwent, I have nothing to complain of. But oh, you can't tell how thankfulI was to get away; I imagined all sorts of horrors."
"Well, God be thanked, it's all done with now," I said earnestly.
"And what is more," said Wetherell, "you have won one of the besthusbands in the world. Mr. Hatteras, your hand, sir; Phyllis, mydarling, yours! God bless you both."
A week later the eventful voyage was over, and we were back in Sydneyagain.
Then came our marriage. But, with your kind permission, I will only giveyou a very bare description of that. It took place at the cathedral, thePrimate officiating. The Marquis of Beckenham was kind enough to act asmy best man, while the Colonial Secretary, of course, gave his daughteraway.
But now I come to think of it, there is one point I _must_ touch upon inconnexion with that happy occasion, and that was the arrival of animportant present on the evening prior to the event.
We were sitting in the drawing-room when the butler brought in a squareparcel on a salver and handed it to Phyllis. "Another present, Iexpect," she said, and began to untie the string that bound it.
When the first cover was removed a layer of tissue paper revealeditself, and after that a large Russia leather case came into view. Onpressing the spring the cover lifted and revealed a superb _collet_--asI believe it is called--of diamonds, and resting against the lid a smallcard bearing this inscription:--
     _"With heartiest congratulations and best wishes to Lady Hatteras,     in memory of an unfortunate detention and a voyage to the Southern     Seas,_
     _"From her sincere admirer,_     _"Dr. Nikola."_
What do you think of that?
Well, to bring my long story to a close, the Great Event passed off withmuch _éclat_. We spent our honeymoon in the Blue Mountains, and afortnight later sailed once more for England in the _Orizaba_. Both Mr.Wetherell--who has now resigned office--and the Marquis of Beckenham,who is as manly a fellow as you would meet anywhere in England,accompanied us home, and it was to the latter's seaside residence thatwe went immediately on our arrival in the mother country. My own NewForest residence is being thoroughly renovated, and will be ready foroccupation in the spring.
And now as to the other persons who have figured most prominently in mynarrative. Of Nikola, Baxter, Eastover, or Prendergast I have neverheard since. What gigantic _coup_ the first-named intends to accomplishwith the little Chinese stick, the possession of which proved so fatalto Wetherell, is beyond my power to tell. I am only too thankful,however, that I am able to say that I am not in the least concerned init. I am afraid of Nikola, and I confess it. And with this honestexpression of my feelings, and my thanks for your attention andforbearance, I will beg your permission to ring the curtain down uponthe narrative of my BID FOR FORTUNE.