LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Park at Stowe............................................Frontispiece
Mary, First Queen-Regnant of England..............................014
Edward VI.........................................................025
Mary refuses to give up Mass......................................028
Lady Jane Grey....................................................033
Queen Mary plights her troth to Philip............................049
Death of Latimer and Ridley.......................................053
Queen Elizabeth...................................................057
Cranmer...........................................................059
London Street--Rainy Day in time of Elizabeth.....................065
Old Palace at Hatfield............................................070
St. James Park....................................................079
Mary Stuart.......................................................087
Sir Walter Raleigh................................................095
Mary's Chamber....................................................098
Destruction of the Armada.........................................103
Elizabeth boxing Essex on the Ear.................................107
Anne of Denmark...................................................111
Door to Holy rood.................................................115
Castle of Edinburgh...............................................123
The Piscina.......................................................131
Drawing-room at Winchester........................................136
Execution of Sir Walter Raleigh...................................141
Henrietta Maria...................................................145
Château Fontainebleau.............................................149
The Plague........................................................133
Maple-Durham Church and Mill......................................163
Catharine of Braganza.............................................179
Cathedral of Guimaraês............................................187
Queen's Bed.......................................................199
The Oratory.......................................................207
King's Apartment..................................................209
Great Fire in London..............................................215
Charles II........................................................221
Chapel in the Tower...............................................227
The Queen's Bower.................................................230
View of Oporto....................................................233
Mary Beatrice.....................................................239
Grande Monarque...................................................247
Versailles........................................................231
The Hôtel de Ville................................................259
Holyrood..........................................................267
James II..........................................................273
Duke of Monmouth..................................................281
St. Germain.......................................................297
James at the Battle of the Boyne..................................303
Queen's Drawing-room..............................................308
Louis XIV. in Old Age.............................................319
Mary..........................................................
William and Mary..................................................341
Scene in Holland..................................................347
Monument of William at the Hague..................................351
The Retreat.......................................................358
Entrance of William into London...................................369
Bentinck, Earl of Portland........................................380
Gardens of William III............................................382
Duke and Duchess of Marlborough...................................391
Anne of England...................................................401
Kensington Palace.................................................405
Hunting Lodge.....................................................414
Chapel of Henry VII...............................................427
William Thrown from his Horse.....................................433
The Avon at Bristol...............................................445
Windsor Forest....................................................470
Anger of the Duchess of Marlborough...............................481
Shrewsbury receiving the White Rod................................495
STORIES OF THE LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND
Compiled From Agnes Strickland, For Young People
By Rosalie Kaufman






THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND.



CHAPTER I. MARY, FIRST QUEEN-REGNANT OF ENGLAND AND IRELAND.
(A.D. 1516-1558).
|Mary was the only child of Henry VIII. and Katherine of Arragon wholived to maturity. She was born at Greenwich Palace in 1516, andwas placed under the care of her mother's beloved friend, MargaretPlantagenet, Countess of Salisbury.
[[A.D. 1516.]] She was baptized the third day after her birth, and namedfor the king's favorite sister.
Mary's mother began her education as soon as she could speak, and whenshe was only three years old she sat up in state to receive someforeign visitors, and amused them by playing on the virginals, a musicalinstrument similar to a piano. It was in a box about four feet long,with an ivory key-board of two or three octaves, and was placed on atable when played upon.
At that time Mary was a bright, merry child, with rosy complexion andbrown eyes, and such a pet with her parents that she remained with themat Greenwich until after her fourth birthday.
[[A.D. 1522.]] While Mary was yet in her cradle a marriage was spokenof for her with Francis I., but her mother was anxious to see herunited to her own nephew, the Emperor Charles V., who paid a visit tothe English court when he was about twenty-three years old. He was therenearly five weeks, during which the little princess became very fond ofhim, and, young as she was, learned to consider herself his empress.
He signed a solemn treaty at Windsor to marry her when she was twelveyears old, but was desirous that she should be sent to Spain for hereducation. Her parents would not consent to the separation, but engagedthe best instructors for her, and had a plan of study drawn up by aSpaniard of deep learning. His rules were rigid; he required the youngprincess to read religious works night and morning, to translateEnglish into Latin frequently, and to converse in that language withher teacher. He implored her never to read books of chivalry or romance,condemned a long list of light works as injurious to morals, andrecommended instead Plato, Cicero, Seneca's Maxims, Plutarch, the worksof Erasmus, Sir Thomas More's "Utopia," some of the classic poets, andthe tragedies of Seneca. He deemed card-playing and fine dressing asinjurious as romances, and gave rules for the pronunciation of Greek andLatin, requiring that lessons in those languages should be committed tomemory every day, and read over two or three times before the pupil wentto bed.
No wonder the poor child's health and spirits suffered, for she was onlysix years old when this system of education was enforced.
The Emperor Charles still continued to desire her to spend part ofher time in Spain, but Henry VIII. promised instead that she shouldbe brought up in England like a Spanish lady, and should even wear thenational dress of that country. He added, that nobody in all Christendomcould be found to bring her up according to the customs of Spainbetter than her mother, who came of a noble house of that country, and,besides, that the princess was too young to undertake the voyage.
[[A.D. 1525.]] During the summer of 1525 a rumor reached England thatCharles V. had engaged himself to Isabel of Portugal. This was littleMary's first sorrow, for her maids had persuaded her that she was reallyin love. But Charles had heard of the king's intention to divorcehis wife and disinherit his daughter, and was excessively angry; inconsequence, he thought best to revenge himself on Mary. He wrote aletter filled with reproaches to Henry, and married Isabel before theend of the year.
Then Mary, though only nine years of age, was established in a court ofher own at Ludlow Castle, in Wales. She had not been called Princess ofWales, but received the same honors as though she had.
The Welsh were pleased to have the royal family represented in theircountry, and the officers and nobles of Mary's court superintended thenewly-formed legislature.
Sir John Dudley, afterwards Earl of Warwick, was her chamberlain, andthe Countess of Salisbury resided with her, as she had done from herbirth, as head of her establishment. There were, besides, thirteenladies of honor, and a large number of other officers.
Few children are so lovely, bright, and well-behaved as Mary was at thattime, when she had her first lessons in playing the part of queen, whichshe was so soon to unlearn. Probably Henry placed her in the positionof heir-apparent of England, hoping that she would make a grand matchbefore he disinherited her, otherwise there could be no reason forit, considering the poverty and contempt she suffered later. Hereducation went on steadily during the eighteen months she spent atLudlow, and great care was taken of her exercise, diet, dress, andeverything pertaining to her health and morals.
Her father made a desperate attempt to marry her to Francis I., but hewas engaged to the widow of the King of Portugal, besides he was by nomeans anxious to marry a girl eleven years of age.
Spite of the methodical course of Mary's education she took part in therevelry at her father's court when she was not more than eleven yearsold, and danced a ballet with seven other ladies and eight lords. Shealso performed in one of Terence's comedies in the original Latin forthe entertainment of the French ambassadors when they were at HamptonCourt.
[[A.D. 1529.]] Her misfortunes dated from that period, for it was thenthat her mother's divorce began to be publicly discussed.
Katherine was anxious to marry her daughter to Reginald Pole, son of theCountess of Salisbury, but he had no desire to connect himself with theEnglish court, though he was always fond of Mary, and gave as excusethat he had been educated for the church, though he never became eithera priest or a monk. He did not hesitate to express to the king hisentire disapproval of the pending divorce, and thus incurred the royaldispleasure to such a degree that he was obliged to leave England.
For a long time Mary had been her mother's daily companion, but whenshe was about fifteen years of age she was separated from her, never tobehold her again. This was such a source of grief to the young girl thatshe became seriously ill on account of it. Katherine wrote her daughterloving letters, and tried to console her for the loss of her instructionin Latin by assuring her that Dr. Fetherstone was a much betterteacher, but she never complained of the cause of their separation inany of her correspondence.
[[A.D. 1532.]] It was not until after the birth of Elizabeth that theking disinherited his daughter Mary, and declared her half-sister hisheiress. Then orders were sent to her to lay aside the name and dignityof princess and remove to Hatfield, where the nursery of her infantsister was about to be established.
Mary was but seventeen at this time, but she showed a good deal ofcourage, when she told the messenger that she should not take theslightest notice of the order unless it were delivered to her in theking's own hand and bore his signature.
Then she wrote a private letter to her father, asking him whether hereally meant to deprive her of her title. He did not condescend toreply, but a couple of months later her household, consisting of no lessthan three hundred and sixty persons, was suddenly broken up, and thepoor girl was separated from the Countess of Salisbury and others, towhose society she had been accustomed during her whole life.
This was a blow far more bitter than being deprived of her title.Another trial it was to find herself no more than a dependent in hersister's household, which was fitted up with the magnificence sheherself had just been robbed of. The comparison that she was dailyforced to draw between the position of her infant sister and her own wasenough to make her hate the child, but, strange to say, her affectionfor it was strong; and good Margaret Bryan, who had been her nurse, andwas now performing the same service for Elizabeth, did all in her powerto soothe the mind of her former charge, and encourage kindly feelingsfor her little sister. Mary spent two years of sorrow and sufferingat Hatfield Castle, where her stepmother treated her with extremeunkindness, and during that time several persons were sent to theTower for calling her "Princess." This no doubt added greatly to herunhappiness. Besides, she was closely watched, and although allowedto read and study, writing was forbidden until after the death of AnneBoleyn, when in one of her letters she apologized for her bad penmanshipon the ground that she had had no practice for two years.
[[A.D. 1535.]] Her position was so dreadful that most people pitied her,and the king was heard to mutter such harsh threats against her that itwould not have occasioned much surprise if her head had been brought tothe block. Her dying mother begged that she might have the satisfactionof knowing that Mary was near her, even though she were not permitted tosee her, but the tyrant Henry refused, though the poor girl's health wassuffering for want of her mother's tender care and affection. Even thesad satisfaction of a last farewell between the dying queen and her onlychild was forbidden, and Katherine of Arragon departed from this worldwithout laying eyes on her daughter.
Mary wrote her father a congratulatory letter when he married JaneSeymour, but he took no notice of it, nor addressed her in any wayuntil she was requested through his privy councillor to sign a paperrenouncing all right to the throne. She could not have been induced todo this while her mother lived, but she was so broken down from sorrowand ill health that she no longer had the power to resist.
Then she was settled again in a household, with her little sister, atHunsdon, which, though comfortable and peaceful, was poor and humblecompared with what she had enjoyed at Ludlow Castle. Mary was herown mistress there for three years, and spent most of the time instudy, dividing off her day as she had been taught to do when under hermother's care. She studied astronomy, geography, natural philosophy, andmathematics, as well as Latin and Greek authors; read the church servicedaily with her chaplain, did a good deal of needle-work, and practisedon three musical instruments. Latin was the universal language, soshe spoke it with ease, and could read and write French, Spanish, andItalian besides.
[[A.D. 1537.]] She was not admitted to her father's presence until 1537,when, strange to say, although her tastes were refined, and her lifea busy one, her journal contained items of high play at cards, and afondness for betting and gambling, which was one of the vices of Henry'scourt, he himself being one of the greatest gamblers that ever wore acrown.
[[A.D. 1538]] The year 1538 was filled with horrors on account of theserious insurrections of the Catholics, who in every case of disturbancedemanded that the Princess Mary should be restored to her royal rank.This certainly placed her in a dangerous position, and it is rathersurprising that she did not have her head chopped off in consequence,for the most dreadful executions took place; people were burnt alive orbutchered in cold blood, and members of some of the noblest families inEngland perished on the scaffold.
The aged Countess of Salisbury, Mary's beloved friend, was locked upin the Tower, and all her property taken from her. She was not sparedsufficient means to purchase warm clothing to shelter her infirm limbs,and the Marchioness of Exeter, with her little son, shared the samefate, though the boy was too young to have committed any offence.The chief crime of these ladies was their friendship for ReginaldPole, who was accused of supporting the claims of Katherine of Arragon,Mary's mother. The existence of the young princess was renderedmiserable by the wretched fate of those she loved, yet she was powerlessto render them the slightest assistance.
Towards the close of the following year, Wriothesley, theprivy-councillor, was sent to inform her that her father desired her toreceive Duke Philip of Bavaria as a suitor. But Mary declined becauseshe did not desire to marry at all, and would on no account ally herselfto a Protestant.
[[A.D. 1539.]] The day after Anne of Cleves made her public entry intoEngland, Henry appointed Philip Knight of the Garter on account of hisdefence of Vienna against the Turks, and he was the first Protestantwho ever received that honor. Before he returned to Germany he presentedMary with a diamond cross, and expressed his intention of coming toclaim her as his bride. She was spared the hardship of a struggle inopposing him because Henry's ill treatment of Anne of Cleves preventedthe return of the brave German, who lived and died a bachelor.
[[A.D. 1540.]] In 1540 Mary was very ill at her brother's residence; thecause of it was probably the dreadful events that took place in Englandduring that and the following year; for it was then that all her earlyfriends, including Dr. Fetherstone and the Countess of Salisbury, wereso shamefully butchered. It must be remembered that these were peoplewhose lives were in every respect honorable and virtuous, but they werefirmly attached to Queen Katherine and opposed to Henry in religiousmatters, and that was the head and front of their offending.
[[A.D. 1543.]] In 1543 Mary was present at the marriage of her fatherwith Katherine Parr, and accompanied the royal couple when they madetheir summer trip through several counties in England. But shewas seized with an attack of her former illness, when she was sent toAshbridge, where, with her brother and sister, she spent the autumn.While there she worked a chain as a New-year's gift for her father, andit had to be so large for that corpulent personage that the materialsfor it cost twenty pounds.
By the close of the year a delightful change took place in her life; shewas restored to her rightful succession after Edward VI. by an act ofparliament, and took up her residence at court.
[[A.D. 1547.]] Having made friends with her father once more, shecontinued in favor till the end of his life, and when he was dyinghe said to her: "I know well, my daughter, that fortune has been mostadverse to you, that I have caused you infinite sorrow, and that Ihave not given you in marriage as I intended to do; this was, however,according to the will of God, or to the unhappy state of my affairs, orto your own ill-luck; but I pray you to take it all in good part, andpromise me to be a kind and loving mother to your brother, whom I shallleave a little helpless child."
In his will he bequeathed to her the sum of ten thousand pounds towardsher marriage portion, and an income of three thousand pounds a year solong as she remained unmarried.
He requested that his son should be brought up in the Catholic faith,which was a serious impediment to the Protestant church in England, andproved the cause of a great deal of strife among his subjects.
Before parliament met, after King Henry's death, the Protestantprotector, Somerset, had, with Cranmer's assistance, taken decided stepsfor the establishment of the Reformed faith, and Bishop Gardiner waslocked up in the Fleet Prison. Mary was very anxious that herbrother should be brought up a Catholic, and had a long controversy inwriting with Somerset on that subject. It seems strange that her penshould have done any work for the Protestant church when she alwaysopposed it, yet so it was, and her name appeared in the preface of theGospel of St. John as translator.
[[A.D. 1548.]] Though Mary seldom attended her brother's court, shespent the following Christmas with him, and at that time they were onthe most affectionate terms. She visited him again at St. James' Palacein 1548, and had a regular suite of reception rooms for her own use,where she entertained a number of friends in the most sumptuous style.
Two years later she was so ill that her death was generally expected.Had she died then how differently would her name have appeared inhistory! The hatred between Catholics and Protestants would have beenless, and the horrible persecutions in Great Britain for religion's sakewould never have taken place. But it was destined otherwise.
[[A.D. 1550.]] During this severe illness Mary had a long correspondencewith Somerset, who urged her to join the Protestant faith, but sheremained firm until, by a sudden turn of events, the protector wasdeposed by Dudley, Cranmer, and Northampton, who did not rest until theyhad brought about his execution. But she had further struggles tomake for her religion; for when Dudley succeeded Somerset he had herchaplains arrested, and wanted to prevent her from having church serviceat all. She made an appeal to Charles V., whose ambassador espoused hercause, and demanded that the Princess Mary should have her mass. It wasrefused, whereupon the Emperor threatened war with England if Mary werenot permitted


to worship as she pleased. Several persons, women as well as men,were burned to death at this period for adhering to the Catholic faith,and the Emperor Charles V. had several ships off the east coast ofEngland to receive Mary and convey her to his sister, the Queen ofHungary, for protection, if necessary. King Edward gave orders that hissister should be carefully watched lest she might be stolen away, theninvited her to visit him, saying that the air of Essex was bad for herhealth, but she refused to leave.
Throughout the winter the controversy continued with regard to the formof worship in her chapel, the chief complaint against her being that shepermitted all her neighbors to flock there in crowds, and that she hadmass celebrated at the parish churches by her chaplains. At last she wasso persecuted that she resolved to appeal, in person, to her brother forrelief from the interruption his ministers were causing to her worship.She mounted her horse, and attended by a train of ladies and gentlemen,each wearing a black rosary and cross hanging at the side, rode throughFleet street to Westminster. This display was very irritating to theProtestant court, but Mary had a two hours' interview with her brother,with whom she dined, and with his permission returned to Newhall inEssex the next day, after taking a most affectionate leave of him. Hetreated her very kindly, and made no objection when she assured him"that her soul was God's, and her faith she would not change."
King Edward always felt somewhat hurt because she refused to make longvisits at his court; but even had there been no difference in religiousopinions, the forms and ceremonies imposed on everybody would have beenirksome to one in Mary's poor health.
After the princess had seen her brother she was left undisturbedfor awhile, and then, without the slightest warning, Francis Mallet, herhead chaplain, was seized and confined in the Tower, with a person inthe same cell to watch what he said and did. Mallet was a learned man,and one whom Mary esteemed so highly that when he was dragged off toprison she wrote to her brother and his council, complaining of theinjustice; but they took no notice of her whatever, and she continued tohave her religious service celebrated by her remaining chaplains.

This went on for a few months, when the king and his council summonedthe chief officers of Mary's household before them, among whom wasRochester, her comptroller, and charged them to inform their mistressthat she must immediately stop having mass at her court. When theydelivered their message, which they did most unwillingly, the princessforbade them to repeat it to her chaplains or to anybody else in herservice, and told them that if they failed to obey her they must ceaseto consider her their mistress; moreover, she would leave the houseat once. She was so much excited during this interview that themessengers begged her to take a few days to consider the matter.She did so, but at the end of the specified time she was firm as ever,and wrote her brother humbly but decidedly that she would sacrifice herlife rather than what she conceived to be her religious duties.
Edward VI. sent for her officers again, and bade them to use theirinfluence with Mary's whole household in order that she might beprevented by them from continuing the Catholic service. They refusedabsolutely to interfere, saying that it was against their consciences,and were locked up in the Tower forthwith.
Having failed with Mary's officers, the king now decided to try whathis own could accomplish. Accordingly three of them were sent to her,accompanied by a gentleman who was to perform the Protestant service forher, whether she consented or not.
When they informed Mary of their errand she said that her healthwas poor and she did not wish to be troubled with a long interview,particularly as she had already informed the king by letter of herintention.
They wanted to read her the list of councillors who had voted that sheshould not have private mass in her house, but she would not hear it,and replied, "Rather than use any other service than that ordainedduring the life of my father I will lay my head on the block; but I amunworthy to suffer death in so good a cause. And though the good,sweet king have more knowledge than others of his years, yet it is notpossible for him to be a judge of all things; for instance, if shipswere to be sent to sea, I am sure you would not think him able todecide what should be done, and much less can he, at his age, judge inquestions of divinity. As for my priests, they may act as they choose,but none of your new service shall be said in any house of mine, and ifany be said in it, I will not tarry in it an hour." When theytold her how her officers had refused to return to her with the secondmessage, she was highly gratified, and said, "It was not the wisest ofcouncils that sent her own servants to control her in her own house,for she was least likely to obey those who had always been used to obeyher." Then she added, "If they refused to do your message, they are thehonestest men I know."
These officers were kept in prison as long as Edward VI. reigned, butMary remembered and rewarded their fidelity afterwards.
After some more useless urging on the part of the king's councillors,Mary gave them a ring to carry to her brother, kneeling as she did so,and saying, "that she would die his true subject and sister, and obeyhim in all things except matters of religion;" then she departed intoher bedchamber.
But the messengers were not satisfied, so they summoned the chaplainsof Mary's household and threatened them with condign punishment if theyperformed any service but that contained in the Common Prayer Book.
The chaplains objected at first, but afterwards promised to obey. Marywas not baffled yet, for she had hidden away one of them and he couldnot be found. While search was made for him high and low, the king'smessengers waited in the courtyard; and the princess threw open herwindow, and laughingly called out to them, "I pray you ask the lords ofthe castle that Rochester may shortly return; for since his departingI keep the accounts myself, and lo, I have learned how many loaves ofbread be made of a bushel of wheat! My father and mother never broughtme up to brewing and baking! and to be plain with you, I am a-weary ofmine office. If my lords will send my officer home again, they will dome a pleasure; otherwise, if they will send him to prison, beshrew me,if he go not to it merrily and with a good will! And I pray Godto send you well in your souls, and in your bodies too, for some of youhave but weak ones."
The deputation did not care to hear anything more that Mary had to say,but departed without finding the missing chaplain, who, not having madeany promise, performed the forbidden service as usual.
[[A.D. 1552.]] In 1552 King Edward had both the measles and small-pox,which left him in such a low state of health that he died the followingyear.
His true condition was kept secret, and while he was dangerously ill asplendid bridal festival was held at Durham House, on the occasion ofa double marriage between Lady Jane Grey and Lord Guildford Dudley,and between Katherine Grey, sister to Jane, and the heir of the Earl ofPembroke.
Rather more than a month after this ceremony King Edward expired.He left a will that disinherited his Catholic sister, Mary, and hisProtestant sister, Elizabeth, and bestowed the crown on Lady Jane Grey.Then the guard was doubled around the royal apartments, and the lateking's council sent a message to Mary that her brother was very ill anddesired to see her. She was highly pleased that his affection shouldhave prompted him to send for her, and set out immediately. Beforereaching the palace, however, she was met by a mysterious messenger indisguise, who informed her that the king was dead, and that if she fellinto the hands of his council she would be imprisoned in the Tower.
Mary was sorely perplexed, for she asked herself:
"Might not this messenger have been sent by an enemy, to draw her intoa snare, and induce her to proclaim herself queen while her brother wasstill alive?" Such an act would have been treason, and would, ofcourse, have led to her ruin. However, after mature reflection,she resolved not to despise the warning, but turned from the Londonroad towards Suffolk. She spent that night at Sawston Hall, in theneighborhood of Cambridge. Mr. Huddleston, who was living there, wasa zealous Roman Catholic, and received the princess and her traincheerfully, though he was well aware that he was taking a risk, for allhis neighbors were opposed to Mary, and would not hesitate to attack himfor extending hospitality to her.
His fears were not without foundation, for when the princess reachedthe top of the hill early next morning, as she proceeded on her way, shebeheld the whole building in which she had passed the night in flames. Aparty from Cambridge, hearing of her arrival, had set the place on fire,but had they known of her departure they might have seized her bodily."Let it blaze," said Mary, "I will build Huddleston a better."
She kept her word; for the present Sawston Hall was built entirely ather expense.
She travelled all day, and reached her seat of Kenninghall, in Norfolk,the same night. By that time Edward's death was known, and it wasnecessary for her to assert her title to the throne at once.
She wrote to the council, expressing her sorrow at her brother's death,and stating that she knew what their intention had been towards her,but assured them that if they would proclaim her in London as theirsovereign they should be pardoned.
The following day, July 10, they proclaimed Lady Jane Grey Queen ofEngland.
Mary was determined to maintain her right, and displayed both courageand prudence in the way she set to work.
She decided to leave Kenninghall, because the country


was too open, and the house not strong enoughto withstand a siege. Two Norfolk gentlemen brought all theirtenantry to her aid, and, mounted on horseback, she proceeded towardsFramlingham, in Suffolk, attended by her faithful knights and ladies.They arrived at the castle before night. It was situated on a hill,surrounded by three circles of moats, and everything was in thoroughrepair for defence, which the valiant knights and armed citizensprepared to undertake. Surrounded by the circling towers of FramlinghamCastle, Mary felt herself a sovereign, indeed, and defied her enemiesby displaying her standard over the gate tower. She assumed the title ofQueen-regnant of England and Ireland.




CHAPTER II.
[[A.D. 1553.]] The royal standard of England had not floated many hoursover the towers of Framlingham Castle before the knights and gentlemenof Suffolk flocked around Queen Mary, bringing their tenants with them,all completely armed. About five days later six ships-of-war sailedalong the Suffolk coast towards Yarmouth Roads, with the intention ofbesieging Mary's castle.
Sir Henry Jerningham, one of the gentlemen who had attended her fromNorfolk, happened to be at Yarmouth when the fleet entered the harbor,pretending that they were forced to do so on account of stormy weather.Sir Henry boldly went out in a boat to hail them. The soldiers onboard the ships asked him what he wanted. "Your captains," replied thecourageous knight; "who are rebels to their lawful Queen Mary."
"If they are," said the men, "we will throw them into the sea, for weare her true subjects."
The captains surrendered themselves, and Sir Henry took possession ofthe ships.
At the same time Sir Edward Hastings was sent to two counties to raisefour thousand men for Queen Jane. As soon as he had secured them, heproclaimed Mary as his rightful queen, and thus placed a large force ather disposal, close to London.
Jane Grey's council, headed by Northumberland, were terrified when theyheard of these two events, and still more so when placards were postedon the churches a few days later, stating that Mary had beenproclaimed Queen of England and Ireland in every town and city exceptingLondon. A revolution was the result, which ended in the arrest ofNorthumberland, who was sent to the Tower. Then several of his partyhastened to Framlingham to excuse themselves to Mary. Among these wereDr. Sandys, Bishop Ridley, Northampton, and Lord Robert Dudley, all ofwhom were arrested.
On the last day of July Mary broke up her camp, and began her triumphantmarch towards London. Her sister Elizabeth, at the head of a cavalcadeof nobility and gentry, amounting to a thousand persons, rode out tomeet her.
Queen Mary travelled slowly and stopped many times, not arriving at herseat of Wanstead until August 3. From thence she proceeded with greatpomp to London.
One of Mary's first acts after she ascended the throne was to forbid thelord mayor to allow any reading of the Scriptures or preaching by thecurates unless licensed by her. This was the first blow aimed at theProtestant Church in England by her.
The trial of Northumberland, and others of his party, took place August18, when eleven were condemned to die, though only the earl and twoothers were really executed. Then the ambassadors from Rome urged Maryto bring Lady Jane Grey to trial, but she replied that she could notfind it in her heart to put her unfortunate kinswoman to death, for shehad been merely a tool in the hands of others, and her existence couldbe no possible danger to herself.
Queen Mary continued to love her sister Elizabeth, took her with herwherever she went, and never dined in public without her. She wasextremely kind to her Cousin Courtenay too, and appointed a noblemanto instruct and guide him. About the middle of August she had aninterview with the Pope's envoy, and told him that she had concludeda league with the Emperor, and had made up her mind to marry his heir,Prince Philip. She also expressed a wish that her kingdom might bereconciled to Rome, and that Cardinal Pole be sent to her.
Violent struggles were constantly taking place between the two churchparties for possession of the various churches and pulpits, many ofwhich were determined by hand-to-hand fights.
Mary was anxious to restore the supremacy of the pope, but BishopGardiner was opposed to it, and wanted her to retain her title as headof the English Church. She replied to him: "I have read in Scripturethat women are forbidden to speak in the church. Is it then proper thatyour church should have a dumb head?"
Mary felt the full weight of the responsibility that her father hadassumed for himself, and imposed upon his successors by separating theChurch of England from the authority of Rome, and feared to undertakeit. The party that sided with her was the weakest in numbers of thethree that then existed in England. The other two consisted of theCatholics opposed to the pope, established by Henry VIII., which wasthe strongest, and the Protestant Church of England, established by theregency of Edward VI.
Mary's ministers belonged to the party of Henry VIII., and had aided himin his religious persecutions and his other acts of cruelty, but theyhad been long used to governing, and she had no other choice than toretain them.
It was Cranmer, aided by Somerset, who, after the death of Henry,established a church on Protestant principles, and then began theintense hatred between the leaders of the two parties. If Lady Jane Greyhad succeeded to the throne. Cranmer would have remained inpower as Archbishop of Canterbury, and the Protestant religion wouldundoubtedly have gained the upper hand; but the Catholic Mary deprivedhim of his office, and put Gardiner in power instead. This bishopchanged a prison for the seat of lord-chancellor in an astonishinglyshort space of time. Then Cranmer was requested to retire to his houseat Lambeth and live there privately. The Protestants misunderstood thismove, and accused him of joining the ranks of the enemy, whereupon hepublished an explanation of his creed. The queen's council regardedthis as an attack on the government, and sent him to the Tower, where heremained for three years, only to suffer horrible martyrdom at last.
On one point all parties were agreed, and that was disapproval of thequeen's engagement to the Prince of Spain. The Emperor Charles, knowinghow strongly Cardinal Pole would oppose it, stopped him on his journeyto England and detained him in a German convent until after the marriagehad taken place.
Philip was only twenty-six years old, and would have preferred a youngerwife, but his father thought political power of far greater importancethan domestic happiness, so he made Mary a formal offer in writing ofhis son's hand on the 20th of September, which took place with a greatdeal of regal splendor, magnificent festivities, etc.
Meantime the queen occupied herself in forming her household, andrewarding the personal friends who had been faithful to her by placingthem in high office. She also indulged her fondness for music byselecting the best singers and performers that could be found for herroyal chapel.
Four days after the coronation Mary opened her first parliament instate, and Bishop Gardiner as lord-chancellor made an orationshowing causes "wherefore the virtuous and mighty Princess Mary, by thegrace of God, Queen of England, France, and Ireland, defender of thefaith, and head of the church, had summoned her parliament."
They found plenty of work to do in repealing old laws and establishingnew ones. Mary retained her power as head of the church of Henry VIII.for a year and a half, but the cruelties of her reign did not beginuntil she ceased to have that control.
While parliament sat Lady Jane Grey was brought to trial and sentencedto death on a charge of high treason. The same sentence was passed onher husband and Cranmer.
Gardiner's influence over the queen was so powerful that he induced herto burn the Protestant translations of the gospels. Thus, one of QueenMary's first acts as head of the church was the destruction of her ownlearned work.
Considerable pains were taken by Mary's enemies to create ill feelingbetween her and Elizabeth, but without success, and when the youngprincess went to live at her palace at Ashbridge the two sisters partedin the most friendly manner.
After Elizabeth left, the queen had a severe spell of illness thatconfined her to her bed for several weeks.
Early in January Count Egmont came to England as ambassador from Spain,to conclude the marriage treaty between Mary and Philip. He was almosttorn to pieces when he landed in Kent, so opposed were all the Britishsubjects to this union. But the queen was determined to marry whom shepleased, and after an interview with the count she told him that hemight confer with her ministers. On the 14th the articles of thequeen's marriage were communicated to the lord-mayor and the city ofLondon.
They agreed that each sovereign was to govern his kingdom separately.None but natives of England were to hold offices in the queen's court oreven in the service of her husband. If the queen had a child it was tosucceed to her dominions. Her majesty was never to be carried out ofher dominions without her special request, and Philip was not to engageEngland in his father's French wars, nor to appropriate any of therevenue, ships, ammunition, or crown jewels of England.
[[A.D. 1554.]] The week after these articles became public threeinsurrections broke out in different parts of the realm. Two of themwere soon suppressed, and their leaders, who had proclaimed Lady JaneGrey queen in every town, fled; but the third was headed by Sir ThomasWyatt, a young man of twenty-three, who was not so easily managed.He was a Catholic, but when a boy he had accompanied his father on anembassy to Spain, and remembered how nearly that parent had become avictim to the inquisition. This made him fear and detest the Spanishgovernment, and his motive of revolt was to prevent similar tyranny frombeing established in England, by the marriage of the Queen and Philip ofSpain.
Wyatt's rebellion began in Kent, whither Mary sent the aged Duke ofNorfolk with her guards and artillery, accompanied by five hundred ofthe London trained companies of soldiers, commanded by Captain Brett.This person was secretly in league with Wyatt, and actually went overto his side when they met at Rochester. This treasonable act caused theloss of the queen's artillery, and gave such encouragement to the rebelsthat Wyatt advanced to Deptford with fifteen thousand men. There hedictated his own terms, which were that the queen and her councilwere to be surrendered into his hands. Mary had too much pluck anddetermination to listen to such an absurd demand, and prepared for openwar.
The whole city was filled with consternation when the desertion of theDuke of Norfolk's forces was known, for every one was aware that thedefences of the royal residence at Westminster were weak. All thequeen's council, chaplains, and bishops went about with a complete suitof armor underneath their customary clothing, prepared to fight when thetime came.
The queen remained calm and collected. She ordered her horse, andattended by her ladies and councillors, rode to London, where she madesuch an eloquent speech, encouraging the citizens to stand by her andput down the rebellion, that the crowd who filled Guildhall and itscourt shouted, "God save Queen Mary and the Prince of Spain!".
She was then rowed to Westminster, where she held a council, appointingthe Earl of Pembroke general of her troops, then gathering to defend St.James's Palace and Whitehall.
In the meantime Wyatt, finding the city too strongly defended on theriver side, decided to move his forces, but before doing so WinchesterHouse was plundered, and Bishop Gardiner's books so torn to pieces as toleave not a single one in his whole library fit for use.
At two o'clock one morning a deserter from the rebels arrived at thepalace of Whitehall with the information that the enemy would be at HydePark Corner within two hours. The bustle and alarm that ensued may bebetter imagined then described. Barricades were raised at the pointsliable to attack, guards were stationed at the queen's chamber-windowsand private apartments, and the palace echoed with the sobs and criesof the ladies. But Mary did not lose her presence of mind fora moment, and when her ministers and councillors crowded around herimploring her to take refuge in the Tower, she answered: "That she wouldset no example of cowardice; and if Pembroke and Clinton proved true totheir posts she would not desert hers."
At four o'clock the drums beat to arms, but the rain was pouring intorrents on that cold winter's morning, and delayed the rebels untilnine o'clock. Wyatt divided his army into three parts, and a desperatebattle was the result of their attack. Queen Mary stood at a window,whence she not only saw the struggle, but spoke brave words to thesoldiers who came near enough to hear her, and scouted at any one whoapproached her with a discouraging report.
Within the palace the utmost terror reigned, the women running fromplace to place shrieking, banging doors and windows, and keeping up anuproar dreadful to hear.
Just before Pembroke made the final charge, which decided the fortune ofthe day, the queen actually came out of the palace and stood between twoarmed men within range of the enemy's shot.
At last Wyatt sank down in the street exhausted and discouraged; he wastaken prisoner and locked up in the Tower. Thus ended the rebellion; butthe consequence of it was that the queen was beset from all sides withrequests for the execution of Lady Jane Grey, who had been the innocentcause of it. Those who demanded this execution said that such scenesof fighting and bloodshed would occur again and again unless theunfortunate Lady Jane were put out of the way. Mary yielded at last,and signed the death warrant of "Guildford Dudley and his wife," to beexecuted on the 9th of February, two days later. To Dr. Feckenham, thequeen's chaplain, fell the duty of preparing poor Lady Jane for thishurried death. He did not succeed in turning her mind from theProtestant faith, but he won her friendship and gratitude, and her lastwords were of the kindness she had received from him.
When told that she was to die so soon, she said: "That she was preparedto receive her death in any manner it would please the queen to appoint.She shuddered at the thought, as was natural; but her spirit wouldspring rejoicingly into the eternal light, where she hoped the mercy ofGod would receive it."
The execution of this lovely, innocent young woman and her husband is afrightful stain on Mary's name, even though she was urged to it in orderto prevent further civil wars.
The city presented a ghastly spectacle at that time; for the desertersunder Brett were all hung, many of them at their own doors, so thatdangling corpses met the eye at every turn of the street.
The prisoners of Wyatt's army, amounting to five hundred, were led tothe tilt-yard at Whitehall, with ropes about their necks; then the queenappeared in the gallery above and pronounced the pardon of all. This isa proof that Mary was far more merciful than her ministers, who wantedthem brought to trial. She was very lenient in her conduct towards hersister, Elizabeth, too, when Sir Thomas Wyatt's confession gave hernotice that the princess was quite as much a competitor for her crown asLady Jane Grey had been.
She sent her own litter for Elizabeth, who had been ill, and had herbrought to Whitehall, where she was appointed a suite of apartments in asecure corner of the palace.
Elizabeth had deceived her sister, and had carried on a secretcorrespondence with Wyatt and the King of France. Mary knew this, butremained her friend, although she would have no communication withher whatever until she could clear herself of having taken part in anyact of treason.
Courtenay was in disgrace, also, because he had corresponded with Wyatt,and was locked up in the Tower. The Spanish ambassador informed Marythat the marriage treaty between her and Prince Philip could not beconcluded until both Elizabeth and Courtenay were punished; but the lawsof England required an open act of treason to be proved before a personcould be sentenced, and Mary was determined to abide by them.
However, as no nobleman could be found willing to undertake thedangerous office of watching Elizabeth, she was imprisoned in the Toweralso.
In March Count Egmont returned to England, bringing Mary an engagementring from Philip, which he presented before her whole court. Shereceived it with thanks, and sent a kind message to the prince, who, shesaid, had not yet written to her.
Renaud, the Spanish ambassador, kept continually calling her attentionto the fact that Philip would not be safe in England until the rebels,especially Elizabeth and Courtenay, had been punished. But Mary put himoff with some general remark each time, and thus dismissed the unwelcomesubject. She had loved her sister from infancy, and was too constant inher affection to destroy her now. Gardiner was accused of protecting theprincess; but it was only because of his friendship for Courtenay, withwhom she was implicated in the rebellion, that he refrained from showingenmity towards her. He was really a friend to Courtenay, whose familyhad been martyrs to Catholicism, and for some time had been hisfellow-prisoner in the Tower, where their attachment had beenstrengthened.
On the 5th of May the queen, having recovered from a very severespell of illness, dissolved parliament in person, and made such aneloquent address that she was interrupted five or six times by loudshouts of "Long live the queen!" and many persons wept.
A couple of weeks later Elizabeth was removed from the Tower toWoodstock, where she was closely watched by part of the queen's guard,and Courtenay was sent to Fotheringay Castle, also under guard.
The same week a Spanish grandee arrived in England to prepare for thereception of Prince Philip, to whom Queen Mary had written a letterannouncing the consent of her parliament to their marriage.
The prince embarked for England July 13, and meantime Mary retired withher council to Richmond Palace to decide what station her husband was tooccupy. She considered it her duty to yield implicit obedience; and thisnotion was the cause of many crimes of which she was guilty later inlife.
When she asked whether her name or Philip's should be placed first inthe legal documents, Renaud replied, indignantly, "that neither divinenor human laws would suffer his highness to be named last." She nextwished to know whether he was to be crowned as king. Her councilobjected very decidedly, but agreed that the moment he touched Englishground he should have a collar and mantle of the Garter worth twothousand pounds.
When the news arrived that the combined fleets of England and Spain,amounting to one hundred and sixty sails, had made the port ofSouthampton, the queen was at Windsor Castle. Next day she set out withher bridal retinue for Winchester, where she intended her marriage to becelebrated.
Don Philip landed July 20, 1554. A crowd of noblemen received the princeand presented him with the Order of the Garter, which was buckledbelow the knee, and the blue velvet mantle, fringed with gold andpearls. He mounted a horse presented by his royal bride, and rodestraight to church, where he returned thanks for his safe voyage. Thenhe was conducted to the palace prepared for him.
He was dressed simply in black velvet, his cap being trimmed with goldchains and a small feather. The shape of his head denoted ability; buthis complexion was yellowish, his hair thin and sandy, and his eyessmall, blue, and weak, which, added to a most disagreeably gloomyexpression of countenance, rendered Philip of Spain anything but ahandsome man.
The following day being Friday. Don Philip went to mass, and the Englishnobles who attended him were much pleased with his courteous manners.
On Sunday morning, Ruy Gomez de Silva, Philip's Grand Chamberlain, wassent to Queen Mary with a present of jewels valued at fifty thousandducats. After mass the prince dined in public, and was waited upon byhis newly-appointed English officers. He tried to make himself popular,told his attendants in Latin that he had come to live among them like anEnglishman, and praised their ale, which he tasted for the first time inhis life.
The bridegroom and his suite mounted their horses and set out in adrenching rain on Monday morning for Winchester. He was escorted bythe Earl of Pembroke, with two hundred and fifty cavaliers, a hundredarchers, and four thousand spectators, who formed a procession.
Don Philip was dressed as usual in black velvet, but on account of therain he wore a large red-felt cloak, and a black hat. About a mile fromWinchester two noblemen from the queen met the bridegroom, attended bysix royal pages, dressed in cloth of gold, and mounted on large Flemishhorses. Between six and seven o'clock, the procession reached thecity-gate, where the aldermen and mayor presented Don Philip with thekeys of the city, which he returned. A volley of artillery greeted him,and twelve men, dressed in red and gold, conducted him to the Dean ofWinchester's house, where he lived until after his marriage.
Having changed his dress for a superb black velvet robe bordered withdiamonds, he went to the cathedral, and after prayers held his firstinterview with Queen Mary, who received him very lovingly.
The next afternoon at three o'clock the queen held a grand court, gaveDon Philip a public audience, and kissed him in the presence of a largecompany. Then after they conversed for a while under the canopy ofstate, the prince was conducted to his residence by a torchlightprocession.
The marriage was performed next day. One of the Spanish grandeesdelivered a solemn oration, in which he announced that the emperor hadresigned the kingdom of Naples in favor of his son, so that Mary marrieda king, not a prince. Then the ceremony proceeded in Latin and English,after which the royal pair returned hand in hand from the high altarand seated themselves until the mass was concluded, when they walkedtogether under the same canopy to the hall where the banquet was spread.
The seats for Queen Mary and her husband were on a dais under a canopy,where their table was laid. Below the dais were various tables forthe queen's ladies, the Spanish grandees, their wives, and the Englishnobility. Bishop Gardiner dined at the royal table. A band of musiciansplayed throughout the meal, and four heralds entered between thefirst and second courses and pronounced a Latin oration in praise ofmatrimony.
After the banquet King Philip returned thanks to the council and nobles,and the queen spoke very graciously 

in Spanish. At six o'clock the tables were removed and dancingbegan, which lasted until nine.
The Spanish fleet sailed for Flanders next day, having first landedeighty of the most superb horses that ever were seen for Philip's use.Four of five hundred Spaniards, among whom were a number of fools andbuffoons, were permitted to remain in England; but the queen's marriagearticles forbade the presence of a large number, so the rest wereobliged to return home.
Within a week of their marriage the royal couple gave a sumptuousfestival of the Garter at Windsor Castle to celebrate King Philip'sadmission to that order. Later there was a grand hunt, and a largenumber of deer were slaughtered.
The usual pageantry attended the public entry into London, which wasmade with an imposing retinue of English nobles and Spanish grandees.Philip had brought over enough gold and silver to fill ninety-sevenchests, each a yard and a quarter long. This treasure was piled ontwenty carts and drawn through the city so that everybody might see itbefore it was taken to the Tower to be coined.
Festivities were kept up until the Duke of Norfolk died, when, asMary had loved him very much, the whole court was ordered to go intomourning. The queen retired to Hampton Court, where, with her husband,she lived very quietly until the opening of her third parliament, inNovember. Then she rode in procession, King Philip at her side, to herpalace at Whitehall. She was very anxious that the lands her fatherhad taken from the church should be restored, but her council would notconsent because they declared she could not support the splendor of hercrown if she deprived herself of these sources of revenue. She replied,"that she preferred the peace of her conscience to ten such crowns asEngland." Her reason for requesting the restoration of the churchproperty was that Cardinal Pole was on his way to visit her, and shedesired to be prepared for whatever instructions he might bear from thepope.
Every mark of honor was bestowed on Pole when he arrived. He wasrowed up the Thames to Whitehall, Bishop Gardiner received him atthe water-gate, King Philip at the principal entrance, and Queen Maryherself at the head of the grand staircase.
On the day appointed for Cardinal Pole's mission to be made known toparliament the queen was so ill that the proceedings took place in theaudience chamber at Whitehall. Her majesty was carried to the throne,where King Philip sat at her left hand and Cardinal Pole at the right.
Lord Chancellor Gardiner made the opening address, introducing thecardinal, who spoke eloquently of his own sufferings and exile, andpleaded the cause of the Roman Catholics and of the queen with such goodeffect that a petition for a reconciliation with the pope was preparedon the spot, and duly signed by each of the peers.
This was presented to the royal couple next day, who, in the presenceof parliament, delivered the document into the hands of the Romanambassador, who thereupon solemnly pronounced absolution and benedictionon all present.
During this ceremony Mary's illness returned; but she was better byChristmas, which was celebrated with unusual splendor on account of theroyal marriage and of the recent reconciliation to Rome. The PrincessElizabeth was enjoying the most friendly relations with her sister atthat period, and took part in the festivities. She sat beside the queenat the state supper which was given in the great hall of Westminster,and attended by an assembly of English, Flemish, and Spanish nobles.The queen's illness had rendered her incapable of governing, soshe can scarcely be held accountable for the cruel executions that tookplace, though she certainly took on measures to prevent them. Philip wasthe real sovereign, and viewed the burning of the two or three hundredmartyrs of the Protestant Church with remarkable complacency.

Fortunately for Bishop Coverdale, the translator of the English Bible,the King of Denmark wrote Queen Mary a letter claiming him for asubject, otherwise he too would have died at the stake.
[[A.D. 1555.]] The sudden and unexpected abdication of the EmperorCharles V. called King Philip to Spain to receive the sceptre, andbefore he left Queen Mary removed from Hampton Court to GreenwichPalace. But whether in England or out of it, Philip was certainly rulerso long as his wife lived, and minute accounts of all church and stateaffairs were submitted to him during his absence. No power was legallygiven to him by parliament, but he coolly took it, and gave importantorders without so much as consulting the queen.
When not under her husband's bad influence Mary restored some wise laws,and the fact that insurrections ceased in her reign proves that the poorwere not so destitute as they had been during the lives of her fatherand brother.
Queen Mary was so ill throughout the rest of the year 1555 that sheremained quietly at Greenwich, sometimes making excursions to thecountry, when she would enter the cottages of the poor and relieve theirwants without revealing her identity. This was during Philip's absence;he returned for a short time in 1557 for the purpose of trying toinvolve England in a war with France. But Mary's finances were at alow ebb, and she did not feel justified in involving her kingdom in theexpenses of a war. Philip's army was mustering near Calais, and in orderto gratify him with as little cost as possible, she pardoned all therebels in her prisons on condition that they would join it also. Sheraised money by borrowing small sums from those of her citizens who hadany to spare, and paying them an enormous interest. Philip left Englandin the summer and never saw his wife again. He succeeded in takingpossession of Calais, but the French gained it back a few months later.Queen Mary was in a most feeble condition when the Scotch madean invasion in the north of England, nevertheless she expressed herdetermination to head her army in person. She had all the energyrequired for such an exploit, but was soon convinced that her bodilyhealth forbade it. Her troops, under Northumberland and Westmoreland,repulsed the Scotch and gained a decided victory over them.
The rest of Queen Mary's life was filled with schemes for the recoveryof Calais, a town highly prized by the English, because it was such anexcellent spot for them to land whenever they desired to invade France.So many disputes were the result that, in her perplexity, Mary declared,"that should she die Calais would be found written upon her heart if herbreast were opened."
[[A.D. 1558.]] Her death was nearer than she suspected, for shecontracted a malarial fever in the autumn of 1558, from which she didnot recover. King Philip sent a message and a ring by Count de Feriawhen he heard of his wife's illness, and proposed that she should takemeasures for the recognition of her sister Elizabeth as her successor.Mary complied; and no sooner had she done so than her whole courtflocked to Hatfield, anxious to prove their devotion to the princess whowas soon to become their sovereign.
While the last services of the church were being performed for her, onthe morning of November 17, Queen Mary raised her eyes to heaven andexpired.
Her devoted and early friend, Cardinal Pole, died two days later.
The queen's body was embalmed, and, after lying in state for a month,was interred at Westminster Abbey, on the north side of Henry VIIth'sChapel. 



CHAPTER III. ELIZABETH, SECOND QUEEN-REGNANT OF ENGLAND AND IRELAND.
(A.D. 1533-1603.)
|Elizabeth was one of the most learned and distinguished queens thatever lived, and there is no other about whom so many celebrated authorshave written.
[[A.D. 1533.]] She was the daughter of Henry VIII. and Anne Boleyn, whowere living at Greenwich Palace at the time of her birth. When shewas four days old her christening was conducted with great pomp andceremony,--the lord mayor, all the aldermen and council of the city ofLondon, besides a great number of knights and lords, being present.
Cranmer, the Archbishop of Canterbury, stood godfather on that occasion,the Duchess of Norfolk and the Marchioness of Dorset being godmothers.The gifts to the little princess consisted of costly gold cups, bowls,and salvers.
Elizabeth did not remain with her parents; for the royal nursery was atHunsdon, where, surrounded by every comfort and luxury that an infantcould possibly need, she was lovingly tended by Lady Margaret Bryan.This lady had also taken charge of the Princess Mary, and had provedherself to be a woman of such rare sense and excellent qualitiesthat she was eminently fitted for her post as superintendent of thehousehold. While Anne Boleyn lived King Henry fondled and petted herlittle daughter; but after her head was cut off and her place suppliedby another.


She was just four years of age, and the Earl of Hertford carried her inhis arms to the font; but when the procession left the chapel the twoPrincesses, Mary and Elizabeth, walked out hand in hand, their trainsbeing supported by noble ladies, who followed close behind.
Fortunately for Elizabeth her early youth was passed in seclusion, whichafforded opportunity for the cultivation of her mind, and thus preparedher for the exalted position she was to occupy later. other wife,his petting was succeeded by neglect and even cruelty, that must havebeen a sore trial to the child as well as to faithful Lady Bryan.
[[A.D. 1537.]] Elizabeth was seen in public for the first time when herlittle brother, Edward VI., was christened. She and Prince Edwardwere warmly attached to each other, and he, at least, was never happierthan while they were permitted to live together. It was she who gave himhis earliest instruction in walking and talking, and it was to her thathe turned for comfort in all his childish sorrows.
[[A.D. 1539.]] When only six years of age Elizabeth presented her littlebrother with a shirt made entirely by her own hands; which proves thatshe must have learned to handle her needle at a very early age.
As they grew older these children played and studied together, andEdward relied for advice on "his sweetest sister," as he loved to callher, until he was separated from her. It was their custom to rise atdaylight and devote a couple of hours to religious exercises and thereading of Scripture. After breakfast they studied languages, science,and the works of the best authors; then Edward would seek exercisein the open air, while his sister occupied herself with her music orneedlework.
Edward's first real source of grief was his separation from this belovedsister when he ascended the throne. It was his desire to have her withhim even then; but his selfish councillors, being jealous of any outsideinfluence, interposed to prevent it.
His devotion to Elizabeth lasted until death: she had been his earliestplaymate, and no difference in religious views had ever risen tointerfere with the congeniality that marked their intercourse. It wasdifferent with Mary, who was a rigid Roman Catholic, and always opposedthe Protestant tendencies of her brother and sister.
When Henry VIII. married Anne of Cleves, Elizabeth wrote her stepmothera most dutiful, affectionate letter, in which she expressed desire tomake her acquaintance. An opportunity soon offered, when the queen wasso charmed with the wit and beauty of the young princess that atthe time of her divorce she requested that they might be permitted theinterchange of visits, which was granted.
The next stepmother, Katherine Howard, loved Elizabeth too, and treatedher with marked tenderness and consideration, giving her the place ofhonor near the throne at all public entertainments.
With a view to strengthening the friendly relations between England andother countries, King Henry tried at various times to form an alliancefor his daughter with several powerful princes; but fortunately for herall his plans fell through.
Under the guidance of her fourth stepmother, Katherine Parr, who was avery learned woman, Elizabeth pursued her studies uninterrupted by anythought of matrimony, which at so early an age, and planned for statepurposes, must have proved a misfortune.
She lived in retirement with her father's widow for a year after hisdeath; and though she set up an independent establishment of her ownwhen she was fifteen years old, she and Katherine Parr continued to befast friends as long as that lady lived.
[[A.D. 1545.]] Even at that early age, Elizabeth was well-informed ingeography, architecture, mathematics, and astronomy, besides beingan accomplished Latin and Greek scholar. She spoke and wrote French,Italian, Spanish, and Flemish; but her favorite study was history, towhich she devoted three hours a day.
[[A.D. 1553.]] She displayed no small amount of shrewdness when herbrother died, which was remarkable in so young a woman. Edward's illnesshad been concealed from his sisters by the wily statesmen who keptstrict guard over him, and who had used every effort to foster theill-feeling that existed between him and his relations. As soon ashis death occured they wrote Mary and Elizabeth that he was seriouslyill, and desired their presence at his bedside. The object was to securethe two princesses, lock them up in prison, and proclaim Lady Jane Greysuccessor to the crown of England; but Elizabeth, suspecting someplot, took not the slightest notice of the letters. When the Duke ofNorthumberland offered her a liberal sum of money, besides a tract ofland, providing she would resign her right of succession in favor ofLady Jane Grey, she replied, "that an agreement must first be madewith her elder sister, during whose life she had no right nor title toresign."
It was not without a difficult struggle that Mary got possession of thecrown, and while it was going on Elizabeth pretended to be desperatelyill and remained quietly at home. No sooner was it assured than sherecovered and went in state, at the head of a large retinue, towelcome the new queen. Then the two sisters rode side by side, in grandprocession through London, and were, apparently, on the best of terms.Nobody who witnessed that procession could fail to observe the contrastbetween the two royal ladies. Poor Mary, whose life had thus far beenone of sadness, anxiety, and ill-health, sat on her horse almost bentdouble, and looking like a woman of middle age, although she was onlytwenty. Elizabeth, on the other hand, whose fine, majestic form andgracious manners won every heart as she smilingly bowed to the right andleft, looked every inch a queen, and Mary sank into insignificance byher side. Her face, though not handsome, was pleasing, and her dark eyesshone with gratification at the attention she attracted. Throughout herlife Elizabeth's delicate, well-formed hands were a source of pride toher, and she never lost an opportunity of displaying them to the bestadvantage. Within a month the affection that the two sistersentertained for each other was seriously impaired on account of theirdifference in religion, which created a great deal of ill-feeling.Elizabeth refused to attend mass, which, though gratifying to theProtestants, deeply grieved and offended Mary.
The state councillors regarded Elizabeth's conduct in this matter asa mark of disrespect, and wanted to have her arrested; but the queenrefused at first to take any extreme measures, and contented herself byturns with threats and persuasion.
Elizabeth remained firm in her desire to appear as the heroine of theReformers, though for the sake of policy she consented to read severalreligious books recommended by the queen, and even accompanied heronce or twice to church. As a reward Mary bestowed many favors on theprincess, and placed her in prominent positions on state occasions. Thiswas just what Elizabeth sought; for she knew the importance of keepingherself before the nation, and never lost an opportunity of appearing asMary's successor. Her manners were so gracious that she became a greatfavorite among the court ladies, and thus excited her sister's jealousyto such a degree that when a charge of treason was brought againsther Mary lent a willing ear to it. Elizabeth was able to prove herinnocence; but she felt so indignant at having been suspected that sherequested permission to retire to the country and thus rid herself ofcourt intrigue.
She took up her abode in her own house at Ashbridge; but even there shewas not left in peace, for the queen was anxious to have her marrythe Spanish Prince, Philibert of Savoy, and the King of France wasconstantly making her offers of protection and aid if she would onlyassert her claim to the throne. He even proceeded so far as to adviseher to go to France, which would have been a most unwise moveon her part, and wrote her letters in a secret language. This had theeffect of rendering her position extremely critical; but fortunatelyElizabeth's judgment was so excellent that she knew how to save herselffrom the friends who would unintentionally have done her more harm, hadshe taken their advice, than her enemies.
[[A.D. 1554.]] She was recalled to court at the time of the insurrectionunder Wyatt, because she and Courtenay were accused of having urged itwith a view to getting the Protestant party into power. She was quiteill when the summons reached her, but obeyed it as soon as possible,and chanced to arrive in London on the very day of the execution of LadyJane Grey. No doubt she trembled for the safety of her own head whilethe queen was daily signing the death-warrants of those who really hadturned against her or appeared to have done so. The public mind was insuch a state of excitement on account of the numerous executions thatwere taking place, that many wept as the young princess rode through thestreets attended by a guard of honor, consisting of a hundred gentlemen,for they supposed that she was being led to the block. Dressed in a robeof pure white, Elizabeth sat up in a litter and looked around with aproud, lofty air. Her youthful appearance touched many a heart; but notone arm or voice, in all the multitude that had assembled to gaze uponher, was raised in her defence.
With a retinue of six of her ladies, two gentlemen, and four servants,she was lodged in a wing of Westminster Palace; and although sheknew that the privy council were debating as to whether she should beexecuted or no, she was unable to get sight of her sister or to pleadher cause in any way.


Many charges were brought against the princess, but Mary'sconscience forbade the shedding of her sister's blood; so, after a fewweeks' deliberation, she shut her up in the Tower.
Elizabeth's letters to the queen, asserting her innocence, wereunnoticed. She was forbidden to use English prayer-books, and compelledto hear mass. Two of her ladies who objected to this were dismissed bythe queen's orders and replaced by Catholics. At first she was kept inclose confinement, but after a while her health began to suffer, and shewas permitted to take exercise in a little enclosed garden.
The officers and servants about the prison were respectful and attentiveto the royal lady, and their children would bring her flowers from timeto time. Her love of children was great throughout her whole life, andtheir ready sympathy during her imprisonment was most pleasing to her.
One day a little four-year-old child picked up a bunch of keys andcarried them to her in the garden, saying:
"I have brought you the keys now, so you need not always stay here. Youcan unlock the gates and go out whenever you please."
Another child, the son of one of the soldiers, received so many tokensof reward from the royal prisoner in return for the bouquets he carriedher, that he was, before long, suspected of acting as messenger betweenher and her fellow-prisoners, Courtenay and Lord Robert Dudley. Such maynot have been the case; but the boy was prevented from again seeing theprincess, and his father was severely reprimanded.
Elizabeth could not have regarded Lord Robert Dudley in the light ofa friend when she was sent to the Tower, because she knew that he hadfavored Lady Jane Grey's cause; therefore, the fact that he was in hergood graces immediately upon her accession to the throne, provesthat he must, in the interval, have found some means of seeking andobtaining her pardon. Whether or no notes and messages passed betweenthem within the walls of the gloomy Tower can only be conjectured.
At the expiration of a couple of months, Elizabeth was removed toWoodstock, where her life was less painful, though she was never allowedto forget that she was a prisoner under close surveillance. A band ofarmed men kept watch around the walls of the palace night and day, andshe was allowed no visitors.
She passed many hours at her needlework, and composed several pieces ofpoetry, which are scarcely worthy of being repeated. But her time hungheavily on her hands, and she was tortured by constant dread of her lifebeing in danger. One day when sitting in her garden she heard a milkmaidmerrily singing at her work, and said with a weary sigh: "Ah! her caseis better, and her life is happier than mine; would I were a milkmaid,too!"
With the hope of softening her sister's heart towards her, Elizabethattended mass, went to confession, and, with the advice of CardinalPole, even proclaimed herself a Roman Catholic. She displayed agreat deal of self-possession, when the queen, who still doubted hersincerity, notwithstanding her professions of religion, caused her to bequestioned as to her opinion of a real Saviour in the sacrament of theLord's Supper. She hesitated for only one moment, then replied in theseextempore lines:--
                   "Christ was the word that spake it;
                   He took the bread and brake it,
                   And what his word did make it,
                   That I believe, and take it."
Elizabeth's policy had the desired effect, and to her inexpressibledelight she was invited to Hampton Court to spend the Christmasholidays with her sister, the queen. But a little disappointmentawaited her on her arrival there; for much to her surprise she wasstill destined to be treated as a prisoner, and it was a whole fortnightbefore any notice was taken of her being at the palace, or before anyone was admitted to visit her.
[[A.D. 1555.]] She kept constantly wondering what this could mean, buthad no opportunity of finding out. Quite unexpectedly one night she wassummoned to the presence of the queen. Trembling with fear, and as toher fate, she was conducted by torchlight to the royal apartments. Onentering she threw herself at Mary's feet and declared that she was amost true and loyal subject. In fact, she conducted herself throughoutthe interview in so submissive a manner, that at its close she wasdismissed with tokens of affection and a beautiful ring. After that shewas relieved of the presence of the guards and keepers and treated withmarked respect by the principal personages of the realm.
Although Philip, Mary's husband, could never quite forgive Elizabethbecause she had refused to marry his friend, Philibert of Savoy, he wasextremely kind to her, and did his part towards rendering the holidays adelightful season of enjoyment for her. At one of the grand pageants theyoung princess wore a rich white satin dress, embroidered all overin large pearls; and when she made her appearance in the hall, bothCardinal Pole and the king kneeled down and kissed her hand.
[[A.D. 1556.]] The following autumn she went to live at Hatfield, where,surrounded by her old, attached friends, she established her householdto her own liking. Her learned instructor, Roger Ascham, was one of theinmates, and under his guidance Elizabeth resumed her study of classicalliterature.
[[A.D. 1557.]] In February the queen made her a visit, andwas entertained in a sumptuous manner. There were daily amusementsconsisting of performances on the virginals, chorus singing, acting, andsumptuous banquets, as well as hunting parties, in which both the royalladies took part.

During the next summer the queen invited Elizabeth to an entertainmentat Richmond. She was conveyed there in her majesty's own barge, whichwas richly decorated with garlands of artificial flowers, and coveredwith a green silk canopy embroidered in gold. Four ladies accompaniedher, and six boats, containing her retinue, followed. The queenreceived her in a magnificent pavilion in her garden. This pavilion wasmade in the form of a castle and covered with purple velvet and clothof gold, on which appeared the Spanish coat of arms, in honor of KingPhilip. A fine feast was served to the royal ladies, after which anumber of minstrels performed. The next day Elizabeth returned toHatfield, where she remained quietly until the following November, whenQueen Mary died, and she was proclaimed her successor.
[[A.D. 1558.]] Heralds, stationed at the grand door of WestminsterPalace, as well as at other public places, announced the new sovereignwith the sound of trumpets, while bells were rung, bonfires lighted,and ale and wine generously dealt out to the populace by the wealthycitizens.
All exhibitions of mourning for the dead queen were quickly replaced bycelebrations in honor of the living one, whose accession was regardedwith the keenest interest by the whole nation.
Elizabeth's first public act, after receiving the privy council, wasto appoint her principal secretary of state. Her choice was Sir WilliamCecil, who not only proved himself a great statesman, but remainedElizabeth's staunch friend to the day of his death.
On the twenty-eighth day of November the new queen entered the cityof London, attended by a train of about a thousand nobles, knights,gentlemen, and ladies, and proceeded to the Charter-house. Next, inaccordance with an ancient custom, she proceeded to the Tower. On thatoccasion the streets through which she passed were spread with finegravel. The public buildings were hung with rich tapestry, and guns werefired at regular intervals. The queen was mounted on her palfry, richlyattired in purple velvet: a vast concourse of people had gatheredto greet her, and as she approached, preceded by her heralds and greatofficers, joyful shouts and acclamations filled the air, while shegracefully returned the salutations of even the humblest of hersubjects.
At various points the procession halted while the queen was welcomedwith music, speeches, or a chorus of children. She seemed pleased witheverything, replied to the addresses, noticed everybody, and franklyexpressed her gratification at the honors that were showered uponher. Her early misfortunes had taught her a wholesome lesson, and inadversity she had learned the worth of Wordsworth's immortal words:--
               "Of friends, however humble, scorn not one."
Attended by Lord Robert Dudley, who had already been appointed to thelofty position of master of the house, Elizabeth entered the Tower, onceher dungeon, now her palace, and proceeded straight to her former prisonapartment, where falling on her knees she offered up a loud, ferventprayer of thanksgiving.
While passing through the court of the Tower she turned to those nearher, and said: "Some have fallen from being princes in this land to beprisoners in this place; I am raised from being a prisoner in this placeto be prince of this land, so I must bear myself thankful to God andmerciful to men."
After a few days in the Tower the queen went to Somerset House fora fortnight, and then to the palace of Westminster, where she spentChristmas.
The next matter of importance that occupied Elizabeth's attention washer coronation, for which preparations were already going forward inLondon. It seems strange that so learned a woman as Queen Elizabethshould have been superstitious, but such was indeed the case, andshe scarcely ever took an important step without previously consultingDoctor Dee, the well-known conjuror.
Consequently Robert Dudley was sent to request this humbug to appointa lucky day for the coronation. After consulting the stars and otherheavenly bodies he decided upon Sunday, January 15.
All the favorite summer residences of the Tudor princes stood on thebanks of the Thames. Therefore, as the streets of London were narrowand badly paved, it was the custom of the court to pass from one to theother by water. The nobility owned their own barges, and the rowers woreliveries distinguished by the crests and badges of their employers.
Three days before the solemn and imposing coronation ceremony was totake place, a grand procession of boats was arranged for the purpose ofconducting her majesty from Westminster to the royal apartments in theTower.
Rich tapestries, hangings of silk and velvet, gorgeously embroideredin gold and silver, hung from the balconies of the houses all along theroute, while gay banners, pennons, and flags floated from the roofs. Allthe public and private barges were drawn forth in grand array,festooned with garlands of flowers and bright new flags. Bands of musicaccompanied the procession, and cannons were fired during its entireprogress.
On the 14th the queen's passage through the city took place. Sheappeared in a superb chariot, preceded by trumpeters and heralds inarmor, and drawn by richly caparisoned horses. A retinue of lords andladies followed on horseback, the latter wearing crimson velvet habits.The gentlemen wore gowns of velvet or satin richly trimmed with fur orgold lace, costly gold chains, and caps or hoods of material tomatch the gown, adorned with feathers and jewels.
Elizabeth did not sit quietly back in her chariot as other sovereignsdid; she kept constantly acting--making speeches, smiling, pressing herhand to her heart, and raising her eyes to heaven as occasion seemedto demand. This peculiar behavior delighted the populace, who showeredtheir sovereign with nosegays and rent the air with shouts and cheers.Several times she stopped the procession to say a few pleasant wordsto some particularly poor-looking individual, and a branch of rosemarypresented by a shabbily-dressed old woman occupied a prominent place inthe royal chariot until its arrival at Westminster.
By such trifling actions Elizabeth won the hearts of even the lowest ofher subjects. It was her policy to please, and no woman was ever moreperfect in the art. She listened with profound attention to the poemsand speeches that accompanied the pageants arranged at different pointsalong Cheapside, where every house was decorated and rich carpetscovered the path. The pageants were similar to the triumphal archesof the present day. They were erected of wood, and had appropriatesentences in Latin and English inscribed upon them. At each one a childwas stationed to explain to the queen in English verse the meaning ofthe device.
One pageant represented an allegory of Time and Truth. "Who is that oldman with the scythe and hour-glass?" asked Elizabeth. "Time," was thereply. "Time has brought me here," she returned. Truth held a Biblewhich, at the recital of a particular part of the verse, was let downby a silken cord into the queen's chariot. She received the volume withboth hands, and reverently pressed it to her heart and lips, declaringin a loud tone that she thanked the city more for that gift than anyother, and added that she would read it diligently. Equal attentionwas bestowed on the other pageants; and just as she passed throughTemple Bar Elizabeth stood up, and, facing the crowd, exclaimed infarewell: "Be ye well assured, I will stand your good queen."
The shouts that arose in response sounded above the report of the guns.
Next morning the queen appeared at Westminster, attired in a mantle ofcrimson velvet, lined and trimmed with ermine and fastened with cords,tassels, and buttons of silk and gold. Her jacket and train were alsoof crimson velvet, and gold lace adorned her head-dress. She woreno jewels, and her coronation was remarkable for its simplicity. TheEpiscopal bishop, Oglethorpe, performed the ceremony, but he followedthe Roman Catholic ritual without the slightest change. Though Elizabethwas a Protestant, she raised no objection to the Catholic serviceuntil the following Christmas, when just at the moment for making herofferings she arose abruptly, and, followed by her whole retinue, leftthe chapel. Had any objection been made to this proceeding she wouldhave pleaded sudden illness, but finding it universally approved, sheordered the service to be for the future performed in English, which wasnever done in the Catholic church.
The learned Doctor Parker was appointed Archbishop of Canterbury, andit was through his influence that the Church of England was establishednearly in its present state.
One of the queen's earliest acts was to send friendly messages to allthe Protestant princes of Europe; at the same time she assured the popethat she would not interfere with the religious views of any of hersubjects. Thus she hoped to conciliate both parties. As a rule, shewas gracious to her former persecutors; but to one member of QueenMary's household who had been impertinent to her, and who hastened tothrow himself at her feet as soon as she was raised to power, she said:"Fear not; we are of the nature of the lion, and cannot descend to thedestruction of mice and such small beasts."
Queen Elizabeth made an enemy of Philip, her sister's widower, byrefusing his hand when she was twenty-five years of age; but in doing soshe announced her determination never to marry at all.
Her popularity increased to such an extent that the lower classesidolized her, and the nobles and gentlemen of her realm were thirstingfor an opportunity to risk their lives in her service.
She appeared in public very frequently, and when her rowing parties tookplace crowds flocked to the river banks to welcome her with musicand fireworks. When she went to Greenwich for the summer all sorts ofexhibitions were planned to furnish an excuse for Londoners to flockthere.
Much of Elizabeth's popularity was due to the fact that she spared nopains to render the national holidays enjoyable to every class of hersubjects. Though she, too, enjoyed the festivities with all the zestof a young, sprightly, healthy woman, her pleasure was not by any meansunalloyed.
One serious cause of anxiety was the knowledge that Henry II. of Francewas constantly trying to place his daughter-in-law, Mary Stuart, on thethrone of England, and there was a powerful Catholic party who felther claim to be a just one. But death soon put an end to the king'sinterference, and calmed Elizabeth's fears from that source.
Then Mary Stuart's husband, Francis II., threatened to assert herrights; but he was too sickly and insignificant a person to takethe stand his father had done, and death removed him also out of theway.
So many suitors sought the young queen's hand that we are reminded ofwhat Shakspeare says of Portia in "The Merchant of Venice": "While weshut the gate on a wooer, another knocks at the door."
[[A.D 1559.]] Elizabeth coquetted with them, accepted their numerousand costly presents, made use of them to further her plans or carrysome point with her council, but never with the slightest intention ofmarrying any one of them.
When at last Philip II. married she pretended to feel dreadfullymortified, and told the Spanish ambassador "that his king was veryinconstant, since he could not wait four short months to see whether shewould change her mind."
The person most favored by Queen Elizabeth at that time was RobertDudley, who afterwards became Earl of Leicester, and much jealousy wasaroused among the members of the council on account of it. Dudley wasmarried to Amy Robsart, a beautiful and wealthy heiress, who neverappeared at court. For some reason or other she resided in a solitarycountry mansion, where she died quite suddenly. It was given out thatan accidental fall had caused it, but there were strong suspicions ofmurder, and Robert Dudley was not held entirely innocent of it. However,no inquiry was instituted, and the queen would hear no complaints of herfavorite. She took occasion to remark publicly that as Dudley was at thepalace when his wife died she was convinced of his innocence.
[[A.D. 1560.]] In 1560 Mistress Montague, her majesty's silk woman,presented her with a pair of knitted silk stockings, which pleased herso much that she laid aside forever the cloth kind she had always worn.A decided change had taken place in the queen's wardrobe, for inher youth she was noted for the extreme simplicity of her attire; but nosooner did she ascend the throne than she gave full swing to her vanity,and purchased more finery than any Queen of England had ever done.She had three thousand dresses and eighty wigs of different styles andcolors. She was positively loaded down with pearls, jewels, velvets,furs, and embroidery. Her costumes were neither pretty nor tasteful;for their object seemed to be nothing but a display of gaudy colors andshowy jewelry.
Elizabeth's court was conducted with great magnificence, and those whoseduty it was to supply the royal household were often guilty of robbingand imposing upon the farmers. Complaints were made to her majesty, whoalways lent a willing ear to her subjects, and invariably compensatedthem for their loss. One day, when she was walking in the fields withher lords and ladies, a sturdy countryman placed himself in her path,and as she approached called out in a rude, coarse tone: "Which is thequeen?" She turned towards him with an encouraging smile; he repeatedthe question, looking from one lady to another, until Elizabeth steppedforward and said: "I am thy queen; what wouldst thou have with me?"
"You!" exclaimed the man with a look of surprise and admiration. "Youare one of the rarest women I ever saw, and can eat no more than mydaughter Madge, who is thought the finest lass in our parish, thoughshort of you; but the Queen Elizabeth I look for devours so many of myhens, ducks, and capons that I am not able to live."
Now Elizabeth was always indulgent to any one who paid her compliments,but upon inquiry she found this man to be both unjust and dishonest, soshe had him severely punished.


Among the preparations for Easter it was the queen's custom to washthe feet of twenty poor women, to each of whom she gave a new gown andthe white cup from which she had drank to them. The same afternoon sheappeared in St. James's Park and distributed two thousand silver coins,valued at eight pence each, among as many poor men, women, and children.These public acts of charity endeared the sovereign to her people,for they were always the occasion of a holiday, and gave the humblestcitizens an opportunity of speaking to her. The coins thus bestowed wereworn by the recipients as precious amulets, and handed down in theirfamilies as heirlooms in memory of the gracious queen.
Nobody ever visited the palace on any errand whatsoever without beinginvited, according to his station in life, to partake of a meal at oneof the tables. No wonder that Elizabeth was a popular sovereign, andthat her's was called a "golden reign."
In 1560, at great loss to her treasury, she called in all the base cointhat Henry VIII. had caused to be made, and returned to every person thefull value in new sterling silver and gold.
[[A.D. 1561.]] Late in the summer of 1561 Elizabeth made a journeythrough her kingdom, and was received with public rejoicings anddisplays wherever she went. These _progresses_, as they were called,occurred several times during Elizabeth's reign, when she wasmagnificently entertained at the various mansions of the nobles whom shehonored with her visit.
Queen Elizabeth was so skilled in the art of ruling that she knew acountry was never so sure of enjoying the blessing of peace as whenprepared for war, so she took pains to provide her's with ample means ofdefence. She gave orders for gunpowder that had been purchased in othercountries to be manufactured in England. Engineers and arsenalswere furnished for all the fortified towns along the coast and theScottish borders; forts were built, garrisons increased, and the wagesof sailors and soldiers doubled. So many ships-of-war were built, andthe navy was increased to such an extent, that after a reign of fouryears England could command a fleet with twenty thousand men at arms.Strangers called Elizabeth "Queen of the Sea;" her own subjects proudlystyled her the restorer of naval glory. 



CHAPTER IV.
[[A.D. 1562.]]
|Queen Elizabeth either forgot her promise to the pope, that she wouldnot interfere with the religion of her subjects, or she was unmindfulof it, for many were persecuted on account of their adherence toCatholicism. All emblems and pictures of the Catholic church wereabolished; and as the English artists were not permitted to copy thesacred subjects selected by the Spanish, Italian, and Flemish masters,pictorial art came to a standstill in England.
It was not on account of religion that the Countess of Lenox, one of thequeen's nearest relations, was arrested and thrown into prison. She wascharged with treason and witchcraft: but the real offence was a secretcorrespondence with her niece, the Queen of Scots, whom Elizabeth hated.She made no secret of this hatred, and was heard to ask "how it waspossible for her to love any one whose interest it was to see her dead."Nevertheless, she would never acknowledge Mary's right to the throne.The fact is, that each of these queens would lavish affectionate termson the other if the interest or caprice of the moment demanded it; buteach was jealous and suspicious of the other, and each hated the otherin the inmost recesses of her heart. Elizabeth was often urged toappoint a successor in the event of her death, and if the name of Marywas mentioned on such an occasion it threw her into a transport of rage.
At last a meeting was planned between the two queens, with the hopeof establishing a better state of feeling; but the defeat of her armyin France under Warwick gave Elizabeth an excuse for postponing theinterview. This defeat was a sore trial to the queen, and besides theplague had killed off a great number of the soldiers. They brought thedisease home with them, and during the following year twenty thousandpeople died of it in London alone.
[[A.D. 1563.]] Meanwhile Lady Lenox had been released from prison, andwas secretly trying to make up a match between Mary Stuart and LordHenry Darnley. It was Mary's desire to conciliate Queen Elizabeth justthen, so she sent Sir James Melville to consult her about an offer ofmarriage to herself.
While this ambassador was at court Queen Elizabeth appeared in adifferent costume each day, and was pleased when he said that hepreferred the Italian style for her because it displayed her yellowcurls to advantage.
She asked him which was the more beautiful, she or Mary Stuart.
"You are the handsomest queen in England," he replied, "and ours thehandsomest queen in Scotland."
"Which of us is the taller?" asked Elizabeth.
"Our queen," said Melville.
"Then she is over-tall," returned Elizabeth; "for I am neither too tallnor too short."
She next asked how Queen Mary passed her time.
"When I left Scotland, she had just come from a Highland hunt," answeredthe ambassador; "but when she has leisure, she reads, and sometimesplays on the lute and the virginals."
"Does she play well?" asked Elizabeth.
"Reasonably well for a queen," was the reply. Elizabeth had a lovefor flattery that could never be satisfied; the most fulsome complimentswere always acceptable, and those who desired favors at her hands knewthe importance of tickling her vanity. It made her unhappy to suspectthat any one could think Mary Stuart, of all women, in any particularsuperior to herself. So on the evening after the interview with LordMelville she managed to perform on the virginals, when she knew that hewas within hearing. It had the desired effect; for the ambassador raisedthe drawing-room curtains to see who the player was, and delighted theheart of Elizabeth by assuring her that she was a much better musicianthan his queen.
Fond as Elizabeth was of popularity she never permitted any one tointerfere with her. Once when Leicester attempted to express an opinioncontrary to her's regarding some state matter, she flew into a passion,and said: "I will have here but one mistress and no master."
This so humiliated the favorite, who had been treated like a spoiledchild for several years, that he absented himself from court as much aspossible, and finally requested that he might be sent on a diplomaticmission to France. But Elizabeth would not comply. She told him that itwould be no great honor to the King of France, were she to send himher groom; then turning to the French ambassador, who was present, shelaughingly added, "I cannot live without seeing him every day; he islike my lap-dog: so soon as he is seen any where they say I am near athand, and wherever I am seen he is expected."
Elizabeth was generally kind and grateful to those who had treated herwell in her youth; but her cruelty towards Doctor Heath, Archbishop ofYork, is an exception. The doctor had been of real service to her; butso determined was she to brook no opposition, that when he refused toacknowledge her supremacy over the church, she had him shut up inthe Tower, and even put to torture, although he was eighty years of ageat the time.
Temper often got the better of this illustrious queen; and when suchwas the case she made coarse, rude speeches to her attendants as well asmembers of parliament, which she regretted in calmer moments.
[[A.D. 1564.]] When parliament urged her to marry she answered, "That ifthey would attend to their own business she would perform her's." Suchdiscourteous speeches won for her a reprimand, which put her in such arage that she refused to give satisfaction upon any question that waslaid before her. Later she made a conciliatory speech and said: "Thather successor might perhaps be more wise and learned than she, but onemore careful of the country's weal they could not have." She bade them"beware how they again tried their sovereign's patience as they haddone."
Dr. Dee, the conjuror, spent much time at court, and received manyfavors from the queen, who even condescended to visit him at hisown house. He had a mirror in which he pretended to read the queen'sdestiny, and showed her his laboratory where he was concocting an elixirof life for her special use. Elizabeth believed in him, granted himher protection, and finally appointed him Chancellor of St. Paul'sCathedral. He spent many years at his foolish trickery, but it iscertain that he produced no compound either for rejuvenating the queenor for prolonging her life.
[[A.D. 1567.]] In 1567 Lord Darnley, who had become Queen Mary'shusband, was mysteriously murdered. Lord Bothwell, who was known to bein love with Mary, was accused of the crime, in which there was stronggrounds for suspicion that Mary herself assisted. Elizabeth took


pains to express no opinion about this matter; but she, no doubt,believed, as all Europe did, in Mary's guilt. She took it upon herselfto announce to the Countess of Lenox the fearful catastrophe that hadbefallen her son, and did so in a considerate and sympathetic manner,which formed a contrast to her former cruelty.
Bothwell was tried, but his guilt could not be proved, and threemonths after Lord Darnley's death he and Mary Stuart were married. Thisshameful conduct horrified the Scottish people, and they rose in armsagainst their queen.
Within a month after the marriage Bothwell was obliged to fly for hislife, and Mary was imprisoned in Lochleven Castle.
Elizabeth may not have regretted the downfall of Mary Stuart; but whenshe heard of her being a captive, subject to insults and abuse from herown people, her heart was touched, and she interposed with the Scottishnobles in behalf of the unfortunate queen. Her appeal had some weight,but Mary was compelled to sign a deed of abdication in favor of her son.
[[A.D. 1568.]] A year after Lord Darnley's death Mary made her escapeto England, and sought Elizabeth's protection. She crossed the Frith ofSolway in a fishing-boat, and was conducted to Carlisle, where, thoughtreated with respect, she soon discovered that she was once more aprisoner.
Elizabeth's treacherous behavior towards the erring, dethroned queen whohad placed herself in her power was a crime that has left a foul stainon her memory. But she had to pay the penalty; for as most of the RomanCatholics in the British Isles regarded Mary as the rightful Queenof England, the realm was filled with plots, revolts, and secretconfederacies that kept her mind constantly on the rack. Mary begged forpermission to seek protection in some other country; but Elizabethsecretly enjoyed the humiliation of her enemy, and was too cautious torestore the liberty of one whom she had ill treated.
Consequently the royal prisoner was removed to Bolton Castle, a gloomyfortress, where she was subjected to most cruel indignities. She wasclosely watched; and Elizabeth's ministers, particularly Burleighand Leicester, reported every action that could be distorted into theappearance of treason. Any partisan of Mary's that could be attackedwas speedily brought to trial, and scaffolds streamed with the innocentblood of many a victim. Elizabeth's popularity was on the wane, andher numerous acts of injustice, that laid low the heads of some of thenoblest men and women of her realm, rendered her an object of hatred forthe time being.
[[A.D. 1570.]] She was thirty-seven years old when Catherine de Medicisproposed her marriage with Henry of Anjou, the French prince, who wastwenty years younger than the English queen.
Catherine was one of the worst women that ever lived, and knew that sucha union would be perfectly ridiculous; but she was so anxious to securethe crown of the Tudors and Plantagenets for her son that she pretendedsincere affection for Elizabeth, and was capable of any deception,intrigue, or even crime to gain her point. Elizabeth, on the otherhand, had such an exalted opinion of her own perfections that she wouldacknowledge no obstacle to the union but religion. In reality, she wastoo sensible not to be conscious of the absurdity of uniting herself toa youth of seventeen, but kept the matter pending for many months forthe purpose of gaining the good-will of France, and of thus preventingthat country from taking steps against her in the affairs of Scotlandand towards the release of Mary. Young Henry remained passive fora long time, counting on Elizabeth's caprice and insincerity for hisown escape; but when the French ambassador informed him that she wasdisposed to consent to the alliance, he declared that he would not go toEngland unless he could be allowed the public profession of the Catholicreligion. Of course, that could not be thought of; so, to spare herselfthe indignity of being jilted, Elizabeth announced her determinationnever to marry at all.
Meanwhile the Duke of Norfolk united with others in forming a plot forthe liberation of Queen Mary and the assassination of Elizabeth. It wasdiscovered, and led to the imprisonment and torture of a large numberof people. The queen declared that she would never release Mary, andordered the execution of the duke. But parliament assured her "that shemust lay the axe to the root of the evil, for she would have neitherrest nor security while the Queen of Scots was in existence."
"What!" she exclaimed, "Can I put to death the bird, that to escapethe pursuit of the hawk, has fled to my feet for protection? Honor andconscience forbid!"
[[A.D. 1572.]] Queen Elizabeth was making a visit at KenilworthCastle in the summer of 1572, and enjoying the festivities preparedby Leicester, when news arrived of that most horrible, most atrociousmassacre of St. Bartholomew in France. The tales of horror, related bythose Huguenots who were fortunate enough to escape from the hands oftheir pitiless persecutors and seek shelter in England, aroused theindignation of the Britons to such a degree that they thirsted to takeup arms against the blood-stained Charles IX.,--that midnight assassinof his own subjects.
But the very people who most warmly condemned the treachery and crueltyof the French now clamored for the blood of Mary Stuart, in revengefor the slaughtered Protestants. Burleigh and Leicester terrifiedthe queen with rumors of plots which had their origin with the royalcaptive, until she became convinced that her life was in peril.
After leaving Kenilworth Castle, Elizabeth made her usual summer_progress_, and was sumptuously entertained in each county where shehalted. She received presents ranging from the richest jewels tosuch useful articles as gloves, handkerchiefs, stockings, and evennight-dresses, and night-caps. Sir Philip Sidney, the accomplishedsoldier and statesman, wrote a poem in honor of the queen, that herecited at one of the entertainments, and then presented her with acambric frock, the sleeves and collar of which were worked in blacksilk, and edged with gold and silver lace, and an open worked ruff setwith spangles.
One day when the queen was in her barge near Greenwich a gun wasdischarged from a neighboring boat, the bullet passing through both armsof a rower who stood near her. Every one was shocked, but Elizabeth didnot lose her presence of mind for an instant. Throwing her scarf to theman she bade him "to be of good cheer, for he should never want, for thebullet was meant for her though it had hit him." When the owner of thegun was examined he persisted that it had gone off by accident. Thequeen pardoned him, and said openly: "That she would never believeanything against her subjects that loving parents would not believe oftheir children."
It was generally thought that Elizabeth was a woman of courage, butonce; although she suffered agony from toothache for several days andnights, she would not submit to having the tooth extracted until the oldBishop of London consented to a similar operation in her presence.
[[A.D. 1580.]] In 1580 officials were stationed, by the queen's orders,at the corners of the streets with shears in their hands to cut offany ruff that exceeded her's in size; they were, besides, to shortenthe swords of all the gentlemen who wore longer ones than she hadstipulated. The French ambassador protested, and insisted upon wearinghis sword as long as he pleased. No doubt he thought his taste quite asgood as the queen's,--particularly when he beheld her riding behind sixlight-gray Hungarian horses, with their manes and tails dyed deep-orangecolor.
The same year Francis Drake returned from his voyage of discovery aroundthe world. Elizabeth honored him with a visit on board his vessel, andknighted him for the courage, skill, and perseverance he had displayed.
Much anxiety and alarm were felt in England about this time on accountof political plots and rumors of conspiracies against the queen's life;and the Catholic subjects, most of whom were ready to raise the standardof revolt in the name of Mary Stuart, were treated with such severitythat those who could escape sought homes in foreign lands. Many noblemenwere executed or put to the torture. Ambassadors from France wereentertained with all the splendor that the English court couldproduce, for the queen delighted in thus impressing foreign visitors;but whenever they ventured to intercede for the Queen of Scots, theywere met with an uncontrollable outburst of rage.
Since Elizabeth had decided to remain single she would not give herconsent to the marriage of any lady or gentleman connected with hercourt. But Leicester had married again in spite of her, and had thusplaced himself under a cloud. He excited the royal displeasure stillfurther when he was acting as military commander in the Low countries,on account of the regal airs he assumed. He even went so far as toexpress his intention to hold a court that should rival in displaythat of England. On hearing of it, Elizabeth not only forbadeLeicester's wife to join him, but cut off his supplies of money, saying:"I will let the upstart know how easily the hand that has exalted himcan beat him down to the dust."
Sir Walter Raleigh had succeeded Leicester in Elizabeth's esteem, and ofcourse excited the bitter jealousy of the deposed favorite. Raleighwas the younger son of a country gentleman of small fortune. He was asoldier, seaman, statesman, poet, philosopher, and wit. His grace andbeauty rendered him particularly attractive to Elizabeth, who nevercould bear a homely person among her attendants. One day her majestywent out for a walk after a heavy rain; arriving at a muddy gutter shestopped to consider how to get across, when Sir-Walter, with courteouspresence of mind, pulled off a handsome plush cloak that he wore for thefirst time, and spread it on the ground for the queen to walk over. Sheaccepted the attention with pleasure, and rewarded the gentleman withseveral new cloaks in place of the one he had ruined for her sake.
It is to Sir Walter Raleigh that England is indebted for her firstpossession in America, which, in compliment to his queen's unmarriedstate, he named Virginia; and it was he who introduced tobacco intoEngland from the newly discovered coast.
On one occasion he was enjoying the weed himself, when his servantentered with a tankard of ale. Seeing his master enveloped in smoke,that proceeded from his lips, the simple fellow supposed that someinternal fire was destroying his vitals, so he dashed the contents ofthe tankard full into Sir Walter's face, and then ran down stairs toalarm the family before the smoker should be reduced to ashes.
It was Raleigh who first presented the poet Spenser to the queen, andshe was so charmed with his poetic genius that she gave him a thousandpounds. In return, he made


her the heroine of several poems, and personified her in threedifferent characters in his celebrated work, entitled the "FaerieQueen."
[[A.D. 1586.]] Another plot to assassinate the queen was laid at MaryStuart's door, and the councillors repeated their demands for herexecution. But Elizabeth shrank from appearing directly to bring ananointed sovereign to the block, though she did not hesitate to subjecther to every species of quiet cruelty. Mary was kept in damp, unhealthyapartments, deprived of exercise, and on several occasions compelled torise from a sick-bed to travel, in the depth of winter, from one prisonto another. Her health became seriously impaired, but that had no effecton Elizabeth; and an insulting letter addressed to her by the royalprisoner did not tend to soften her heart.
At last Mary was induced by spies, who pretended to-be her friends, towrite to the French and Spanish ambassadors requesting aid from theirgovernments. These letters were intercepted and shown to the queen. Manyof Mary's partisans were arrested; and Walsingham, one of the ministers,published a full account of the preparations France and Spain weremaking to invade England--where, upon landing, their troops would bejoined by all the papists of the realm.
This excited the indignation of the populace to the utmost degree, andboth foreign and native Catholics were in danger in consequence; eventhe ambassadors were insulted in their houses. Every heart now warmedtowards the queen; and when the conspirators were discovered and lockedup in the Tower, the event was celebrated by the lighting of bonfiresand ringing of bells.
At last it was decided that Mary Stuart should have a trial, if soperfect a farce merits that name. Elizabeth had said publicly that sheconsidered the Scottish queen un- worthy of counsel, and that wasin itself enough to condemn her without a trial.
When the commissioners arrived at Fotheringay, and ordered Mary toappear before them, she refused to acknowledge their authority; butthey were armed with a letter from Elizabeth, which she was compelled toobey.
Mary's deportment in this trying emergency was spirited and adroit. Shetold the commissioners "that she had endeavored to gain her liberty,and would continue to do so as long as she lived; but that she had neverplotted against the life of the queen."

After pleading for herself for two days, Mary demanded to be heardbefore the parliament of England, or the queen herself and hercouncil. The court was then adjourned, the whole proceeding reported toElizabeth, and twelve days later sentence of death was pronounced on theScottish queen. At the next meeting of parliament it was urged thatthe sentence should be carried into effect.
At this period Elizabeth behaved with her characteristic selfishness.She was anxious for Mary's death, and felt no pity for the object ofher fury; but she feared to appear before the world as the author of therevenge upon which she was bent, and sought to make parliament share theodium of her deed.
The Kings of France and Scotland interceded for Mary and increasedElizabeth's irresolution; but Leicester and Walsingham, well knowingwhat their fate would be should Elizabeth chance to die, and thus makeway for Mary to the throne of England, kept urging their sovereign tosign the death-warrant. At last she yielded; but no sooner had she doneso than she fell into a state of melancholy, and secretly urged oneof the castellans of Fotheringay to murder his hapless charge. She waswilling to resort to any means of getting Mary out of the way, providingshe could preserve her own reputation by putting the blame on others.But she was not to be gratified, and on the 8th of February theexecution took place in due form. Not one of the council had the courageto inform the queen that the bloody deed was accomplished. In theevening she asked "what meant the bonfires and the merry ringing ofthe bells?" The answer stunned her for a moment; then she burst intoa passionate fit of weeping, sharply rebuked her council and bade themquit her sight at once, saying that she had never commanded nor intendedthe execution of Mary Stuart.
This may have been hypocrisy; but more likely it was remorse for aneedless, outrageous, barbarous act.
Elizabeth wrote to James VI. of Scotland, professing her innocence ofthe "miserable accident," as she was pleased to term the murder ofhis mother, and assuring him of her affection for himself. Tothe French ambassador she said that the death of her kinswoman was thegreatest misfortune of her life, and that although she had signed thedeath-warrant to gratify her subjects, she had never meant to carry itinto effect. She added that her council had played her a trick whichwould have cost them their heads, did she not believe that they hadacted for the welfare of herself and the state. After Mary Stuart'sdeath there seemed to be an end to conspiracies for a while, and novery important event occupied the queen's mind until she began to makepreparations to defend herself against the invasion of the grand Spanisharmy, called the Invincible Armada. She showed herself on this occasionworthy to be the queen and heroine of a nation that were eager to provetheir devotion and loyalty.
[[A.D. 1588.]] The despised, disgraced Earl of Leicester, who hadby this time regained his place in the royal favor, was appointedcommander-in-chief of the army at Tilbury. Lord Hunsdon commanded thequeen's body-guard for the defence of London, and Sir Francis Drake wasappointed vice-admiral.
Elizabeth took up her abode at Havering Bower, a place selected for herby Leicester, situated between the rear and van of her army. Thereshe appeared as warrior and queen. Mounted on a noble charger, witha general's truncheon in her hand, a polished steel corselet over hermagnificent apparel, and a page in attendance bearing her white plumedhelmet, she rode bareheaded from rank to rank, addressing her soldierswith words of encouragement and hope. She was greeted with loud shoutsof applause by her admiring subjects, who felt it an honor to fight forsuch a noble, courageous sovereign.
The Spaniards had flattered themselves that with an army equipped astheir's was it would require only one fight by sea and one on landto achieve the conquest of England; but they soon found their mistake,and not a single Spaniard set foot on English soil except as a prisoner.
The Spanish Armada was soon scattered, and victory was declared forEngland.
Immense crowds gathered to welcome the queen on her return toWestminster. She was then fifty-five years of age, at the height of herglory, and beloved by her subjects, whom she had ruled for thirty years,and who had united, one and all, Catholic and Protestant, to support herin vindicating the honor of England.
Her first act was to reward her brave commanders and provide for thewounded seamen. Upon Leicester she would have bestowed the highestoffice ever held by an English subject,--that of lord-lieutenantof England and Ireland; but, much to the satisfaction of the otherstatesmen, he died before the patent could be made out. A series ofthanksgivings were observed in London to commemorate the victory, andthe queen was presented with a number of rich and valuable gifts.
Queen Elizabeth was never an idle woman. Long before day, in winter,she transacted business with her Secretaries of state, heard publicdocuments, and gave her orders concerning them. After breakfast shewould promenade in her garden or the corridors of the palace, as theweather prompted, attended by some learned gentlemen of the court, withwhom she discussed intellectual topics, and a portion of each day wasdevoted to study.
She observed strictly all the fast-days prescribed by the church. Shewas a moderate eater, and seldom drank anything but beer; when she dinedin public the table was magnificently spread, with a profusion of costlyplate, for she was fond of displaying her riches, particularly beforeforeign ambassadors. Her cup-bearer always served her on his knees,and music and singing accompanied the banquet.
At supper, when the cares of the day were over, the queen would chatfreely and pleasantly with her court, and the evenings were passed withchess-playing, music, or recitations and stories by the famous comedian,Tarleton, and others. She was fond of apes and dogs, but, beyond all, ofchildren, with whom she loved to talk and amuse herself.
As a rule, Elizabeth treated her attendants well; but when her tempergot the upper hand, which was not seldom, she descended to the levelof a common virago, and more than once struck some maid of honor fora trifling offence. But these outbursts of rage were reserved for thepeople of the palace; her other subjects witnessed only sweetness andgood humor.
Her impulses were good, as she proved in the case of Margaret Lambrun, aScottish woman, whose husband was supposed to have died of grief becauseof the tragic fate of the Queen of Scots, in whose service he was.Margaret took the desperate resolution to avenge his death; so,disguised in male attire, she proceeded, with a concealed brace ofpistols, to the English court, with the intention of killing the queenwith one and herself with the other. One day, when her majesty waswalking in the garden of the palace, Margaret made her way throughthe crowd so as to get near enough to make sure of her aim, but in herexcitement she dropped one of the pistols. She was instantly seized,and would have been hurried away to prison but Elizabeth said "she wouldexamine the young man herself."
[[A.D. 1589.]] When brought before her Margaret bravely acknowledgedwho she was, her intended action, and its cause. The queen heard herpatiently; then not


only granted her a full pardon, but provided her with an escort toFrance, as she had requested.
Many persecutions on the score of religion succeeded the victory overthe Spanish Armada, and one of the greatest grievances of Elizabeth'sreign was known as the privy seal loans. Whenever an individual wasknown to have amassed a sum of money her majesty's ministers wouldborrow for the royal treasury. To be sure, they paid a liberal interest;but there was no security for the principal, besides the sovereign'spromise to pay, which, it is easy to see, would have been valueless inthe event of death.
After the death of Leicester, Essex, who had been created Knight of theGarter, succeeded to the queen's favor; but while she was showing himthe utmost consideration he excited her wrath by marrying the widow ofSir Philip Sidney, the illustrious soldier and statesman, who had beenkilled at the battle of Zutphen. He was at once replaced by Sir RobertCecil, and when Henry III. sent to England for aid to defend himselfagainst the Spanish invaders, he injured his cause by saying that Essexapproved of his demand; for Elizabeth replied, "That the Earl of Essexwould have it thought that he ruled the realm, but that nothing was moreuntrue; that she would make him the most pitiful fellow in the realm,and instead of sending the King of France more troops, she would recallall those she had already lent him." Having said this she haughtilyswept out of the room, and would have nothing further to say to theambassador.
[[A.D. 1592.]] Later, when Essex showed prompt obedience at thequeen's command for his return to England, she was so pleased that sheentertained him with feasts, and sent him back to France honored withthe highest distinction. Every request he made was granted almost beforeit was considered. Nevertheless, Elizabeth's capricious natureasserted itself when Ireland was in a state of revolt, and there wasdifficulty in finding some one to fill the post of lord-deputy over thedistracted country. On that occasion Essex peremptorily insistedthat Sir George Carew was the proper man for the office, whereupon,forgetting how by numerous indulgences she had encouraged him to speakfreely, Elizabeth felt so offended at his positive tone that she losther self-control, and giving him a sound box on the ear, bade him "goand be hanged."
Essex was so indignant that he swore a horrible oath, and impertinentlyadding something about "a king in petticoats."
Later the royal mind was changed again, and he was sent as lord-deputyto Ireland.
While there, he was so unmindful of the queen's orders that he wasaccused of treason, and on his return shut up in the Tower. He had manyenemies, and Cecil so prejudiced the queen and her court against himthat he was condemned to die.
[[A.D. 1601.]] Elizabeth hesitated as long as possible before signinghis death-warrant. She had given Essex a ring when he was in favor, withthe promise that if ever he offended her the sight of that token wouldinsure forgiveness. The imprisoned statesman did send the ring by a boywho chanced to pass his prison window one morning; but by an unluckyaccident it fell into the hands of the lord-admiral, a deadly foe ofEssex, who said nothing about it. The queen concluding that her formerfavorite was too proud to sue for forgiveness, because the ring she hadbeen expecting did not reach her, ordered the execution to proceed.
The English nation could not forgive the death of the generous andgallant nobleman, and the queen was no


longer received with cheers when she appeared in public. She didnot fail to notice the change in her subject's feelings towards her, andthis made her excessively unhappy. A deep depression took possessionof her, and though she tried to appear gay her heart was very heavy.Several attempts were made on her life from time to time as she advancedin years, but fortunately each was frustrated.
Literature made rapid strides during Queen Elizabeth's reign,particularly all that was written in Italian, which language her majestyunderstood well. Many dramatists rose to distinction at this period, thegreatest being William Shakspeare. Spenser and Sir Philip Sidney addedlustre to this reign also.
Elizabeth's last parliament was summoned in the autumn of 1601. Sheperformed the ceremony with more than her customary display; but she wasin such feeble health as to be unable to support the weight of the royalrobes, and she was actually sinking to the ground when a nobleman, whostood near, caught her and supported her in his arms. She rallied andwent through the fatiguing ceremony with her usual dignity and grace.
The science of medicine was in such a rude condition in the sixteenthcentury that the wealthy were treated with doses of pulverized jewelsor gold. The poor had the best of it; for they were obliged to depend onherbs and ointments which certainly must have been more efficacious.
Queen Elizabeth had so little confidence in doctors or theirprescriptions that she could not be induced to consult them even whenshe was very ill.
[[A.D. 1603.]] Her last sickness began in March, 1603, and when she wasurged to seek medical aid, she angrily replied: "That she knew her ownconstitution better than anybody else, and that she was not in suchdanger as they imagined." She grew worse, however, and died two weekslater, in the seventieth year of her age, and the forty-fourth ofher reign.
She was buried in Westminster Abbey in the same grave with her sister.Mary Tudor. Her successor, James I., erected a monument to her memory.On a slab of pure white marble the effigy of this remarkable queen liesbeneath a stately canopy. Her head rests on embroidered cushions, herfeet on a couchant lion. Royal robes hang around her form in classicfolds, and her closely curled hair is covered with a simple cap. She hasno crown, the sceptre has been broken from one hand, also the cross fromthe imperial orb which she holds in the other.
That learned English philosopher, Lord Bacon, has written of QueenElizabeth: "She was pious, moderate, constant, and an enemy to novelty.She hated vice, and studied to preserve an honorable name. No age hasever produced her like for the government of a kingdom."






CHAPTER V.
ANNE OF DENMARK, QUEEN-CONSORT OF JAMES THE FIRST.
(A.D. 1575-1618.)
|Anne of Denmark was certainly less intellectual than some of herpredecessors, and on many occasions showed herself wanting in judgmentand common sense; but her political position was of immense importance,because she was the wife of the first monarch who ruled over the wholeof the British isles. The Orkney and Shetland islands had fallen intothe hands of the Danish King during the preceding century, and wereyielded to James VI. of Scotland on condition of his marrying thePrincess Anne.
These islands were of value because of their geographical position; forthey had become the rendezvous of pirates, who found them convenientheadquarters whence their raids could be made along the British coast.
Princess Anne's parents were Frederic II. of Denmark, one of therichest princes of Europe, and Sophia, a woman loved and admired for herdomestic virtues. These royal parents had such luxurious ideas aboutthe rearing of their children that although Anne was a strong, healthychild, well-formed in every respect, she was never permitted to walkuntil she was nine years of age.
[[A.D 1585.]] Negotiations for her marriage began when she was ten; andthen it was thought proper to teach her to sew, read, and dance, beforeshe could be regarded as an accomplished maid. James VI. was bornat Edinburgh Castle, but the poor little unfortunate was early deprivedof parental care; for while he was yet a baby his father, Lord Darnley,was killed, and his luckless mother, Mary Stuart, was forced to seekrefuge in England.
At the early age of fourteen months James was proclaimed King ofScotland. On that occasion the Earl of Marr, his guardian, carried theinfant in procession and placed him on the throne; another peer held thecrown above his head, while a third placed the globe and sceptre in hislittle hands, and Lord Marr repeated the necessary oath in the name ofthe little one, who was then carried back to his nursery.
Of course little James was only king in name, for many years would haveto pass before he would be fit to undertake the reins of government.Meanwhile, his uncle, the Earl of Murray, was appointed to act asregent. Unfortunately for the young king, he had a nurse who was by nomeans capable of taking charge of him, for she drank to excess andnever controlled him or his diet properly. The consequence was that hedeveloped slowly, and was such a weakling that he was full five yearsold before he could walk, and throughout his life his limbs were neveras strong as they ought to have been. This defect may have been partlydue, however, to the absurd manner of dressing infants three centuriesago in Scotland; for as soon as they were born they were swathed inbandages, with their arms bound down to their side and their legs closetogether and straight out, precisely after the manner of an Egyptianmummy. Is it any wonder that they were long in discovering the use oftheir limbs? In some parts of Germany babies are subjected to thiscruel swaddling to the present day, but the arms are left free, andfortunately the custom is gradually going out of favor.


Though backward in the use of his legs, little James talkedwonderfully well, and soon learned to ask questions that were difficultto answer, and to make remarks that often seemed most profound for oneof his age
[[A.D. 1571.]] He was just four years when he was called upon to performregal duty by convening parliament. The Earl of Marr carried him to thegrand Gothic hall of Stirling Castle, and placed him on the throne. Heseemed impressed at the numerous assemblage of lords and gentlemen, butlooked around as though to familiarize himself with the scene, and whenthe proper time came recited the speech that had been drilled into himbeforehand. But he added a little impromptu speech of his own, for hiseyes rested on a hole in the canopy above the throne, and he exclaimedaloud in his childish voice: "There is _ane_ hole in this parliament."In the present day such a remark from the lips of a little boy mightexcite a smile, but certainly no great importance would be attached toit, but in the year 1571 the Scotch were very superstitious, and sothey gazed at the infant monarch with amazement. "What could he possiblymean?" asked the wise lords of one another; for they never for onemoment doubted that the spirit of prophesy had prompted the remark, andthat the king foresaw an awful decrease in their numbers to be made bydeath.
In the course of the year the Earl of Lenox, James's grandfather, waskilled, and that justified the royal child's remark in the eyes of thesuperstitious. The old earl was on his way to visit James, when he wasstabbed in the back by conspirators. The brave Earl of Marr, attractedby the dying man's groans, rushed out from Stirling Castle with hisservants and carried him to a place of safety. "Is the babe attacked?"asked the old man, and on being assured that he alone was the sufferer,he replied, with a sigh of relief, "Then all is well," and diedsoon after with perfect resignation.
The Earl of Marr was tutor to the king until he died, when he wassucceeded by George Buchanan, a bad, morose, capricious man, who hadsuch rigid ideas with regard to discipline that old Lady Marr, theearl's mother, often wept on account of his cruel treatment towards hispupil.
James had been removed to Stirling Castle during his infancy, and therehe passed his youth. His favorite companion was Thomas Erskine, hisfoster-brother, who happened to be born on the same day as the youngking, whose cradle and sports he shared. Another playmate was the youngEarl of Marr, for whom James formed an attachment so warm and true thatit lasted to the end of his life.
[[A.D. 1577.]] The civil and religious wars that were raging in Scotlandhad their effect on the young king, and, to some extent, appear to haveinjured his character; for he was, in consequence, under the control ofsome people whose influence was bad, and prompted him to authoritativemanners that were out of place in one so young, and made him appear in afalse light.
As he grew older he would at times pretend to be an imbecile, merelyfrom a spirit of perversity; but he was neither a fool nor a coward, ashe proved later.
He was only sixteen years of age when the Earl of Gowrie capturedhim, but he managed to make his escape and seek the protection of hisgreat-uncle, the Earl of March. A revolution succeeded, and Gowrie wasbeheaded soon after.
[[A.D. 1580.]] Three years later, Frederic II. of Denmark sentambassadors to Scotland to offer to the young king the hand of hissecond daughter in marriage. Queen Elizabeth opposed this allianceso violently that the marriage-treaty was delayed several years. Sheought to have been pleased at the prospect of a Protestant wife for thefuture King of England, but it was her peculiarity to break off everymatch that she could influence.
Meanwhile, Henry of Navarre offered his sister Catherine for a wife toJames; but as she was many years older than the young king, and asAnne of Denmark was just sixteen, and a miniature that had been sentto Scotland represented her as being very beautiful, the decision wasquickly made in her favor.
Before the necessary arrangements could be completed her father, KingFrederic, died.
[[A.D. 1589.]] The Earl-marischal of Scotland, accompanied by otherdignitaries, proceeded, as proxies for James, with a noble fleet, toclaim the young princess and carry her to Scotland. They were receivedwith great joy by Queen Sophia, who, with Princess Anne, met them atthe fortress of Corenburg. There the bride embarked on board a shipcommanded by the Danish admiral, Peter Munch, who, with a fleet ofeleven other fine ships, set sail for Scotland. It was in the month ofSeptember, and the sea was so rough that although the squadron sightedland in due season contrary winds blew them to the coast of Norway.Instead of attributing this occurrence to natural causes, Peter Munchwas in a dreadful state of perplexity, and began to consider whatwitches he had offended to such an extent as to induce them to raise thewinds and waves so that he could not bring the young queen to Scotland.Suddenly it occurred to him that he had boxed the ears of an officer atCopenhagen, whose wife was a well-known witch. He felt satisfied thenthat in order to avenge the insult to her husband the witch-wife hadtampered with the winds, and so the unfortunate creature was burntalive when he got back home. Having once determined that they werebewitched, nothing went well with the fleet, and a series of disastersreduced ten of the ships to such a deplorable condition that theyreturned to Denmark. The one in which the queen had sailed took refugein a harbor on the coast of Norway, where, as the cold weather hadalready set in, there was every prospect that the bride would have tostay all the winter. She wrote an account of her sufferings to the Kingof Scotland, which a young Dane undertook to deliver in spite of witchesand weather.
While expecting his wife King James had made grand preparations for herreception, and he was so disappointed at her delay that he resolved togo himself to fetch her. Now this was a brave undertaking, for the bestship that could be furnished was a miserable bark, scarcely fit to bravethe wintry storms of the German ocean; however, a prosperous breezefavored the courageous king until he approached the Norwegian coast.He had enjoyed four days of fine weather, but on the fifth a furioustempest sprang up, and for twenty-four hours the royal bark was indanger of wreck. At last she ran into a little harbor, where King Jameslanded.
After several days' travelling through snow and ice, he reached thevillage where Anne had established herself, and without waiting for theceremonies of his rank and station, he left his attendants and marchedstraight to the presence of his bride. On the following Sunday theywere married, and the king immediately, and very thoughtfully, sent amessenger over the mountains to Denmark to inform Queen Sophia of hisarrival and marriage with the princess.
Her majesty then invited the newly-wedded pair to make her a visit. Theyconsented, and set out upon a journey beset with so many hardships thatthey were obliged to halt several times before they reached theCastle of Croenburg, where all the royal family of Denmark had assembledto meet them.
All was gayety and splendor at the rich court, where the marriage ofJames and Anne was celebrated over again according to the Lutheranrites. Nothing interfered with their pleasure, excepting the quarrelsomespirit of the Scottish nobles who had accompanied the king. They alldrank too freely, his majesty included, and there were frequent brawlsand strifes among them.
It was not until after the wedding of Queen Anne's sister Elizabeth tothe Duke of Brunswick, which took place early in the spring, that theScottish bride and groom thought of proceeding to their future home.
The royal family of Denmark entertained such a warm affection for oneanother that when the moment of parting arrived it was a sore trial forthe young queen to bid farewell to her loving mother, as well as to theyoung king, her brother, who was so fond of her that in later years hepaid several long visits at her court.
The royal fleet sailed from Croenburg in April, and when the bridalpair landed a large crowd of faithful subjects assembled to welcome themto Scotland.
Shortly after, preparations for the queen's coronation were begun. Onthe Tuesday preceding that ceremony her majesty made her state-entryinto the city of Edinburgh, riding in a richly gilt car, lined withcrimson velvet; on either side of her sat her favorite Danish maids ofhonor. The king rode on horseback just in front of the queen's carriage,and a train of robles escorted the royal couple to Holyrood. Thecoronation ceremony was performed on the following Sunday at the Abbeychurch of Holyrood.
On the following Tuesday, accompanied by the king and all the lordsand ladies who had assisted at her coronation, the queen passed throughthe streets of Edinburgh in an open coach.
At the end of a month passed in all sorts of festivities and rejoicings,the Danish visitors returned home, and Queen Anne went to live atDunfermline Palace, which had been renovated and refurnished to suit hertaste.
As the young queen's knowledge of household arrangements was necessarilylimited, and as she was inexperienced concerning the customs of her newcountry, the king advised her always to consult his faithful friend andloyal subject, Sir James Melville, who held a high position in the royalhousehold.
With the perversity that she showed on many occasions throughout herreign Queen Anne immediately took a decided aversion to Melville, andnever in any emergency sought his advice.
There had been no queen at the Scottish court for a quarter of acentury, consequently the men surrounding it had become so course andbrutal in their manners that it was necessary to make many changes, andeven to dismiss some of the most faithful officials before ladies couldfeel safe or comfortable.
[[A.D. 1590.]] Among the reformations that were taking place inScotland, the destruction of all the works of art in the churcheswere deemed necessary; but no steps were taken to abolish the horriblesuperstition that led to the burning of hecatombs of witches. More thanhalf the time of the judges was occupied with their absurd confessions.One of the most remarkable of these witches was Annis Simpson, calledby her neighbors "the wise wife of Keith." She declared that she hada familiar spirit, who appeared in a visible form at her call, andinformed her whether people who were ill or exposed to danger should


live or die. The king asked her what words she used to summon thespirit. She replied: "That she merely called ''Holla, master!' and hecame without fail." Then she proceeded to describe one of the witchmeetings which, she said, was held at night in a church, where the devilin a long black gown, with a hat on his head, preached from the pulpitto an audience of witches. She added, furthermore, that one man got hisears boxed by the preacher because he thanked God that no harm had cometo the king, though many had been injured. Thereupon the devil solemnlypronounced this sentence: "_Il est un homme de Dieu_." This was themore firmly credited because the woman did not understand what the wordsmeant; therefore, it was argued, she could not have invented them. Jameswas immensely flattered at being called a man of God by the evil spirit.
"The wise wife of Keith" was first strangled, and then burned in companywith others whom she had accused.
[[A.D. 1592.]] One summer when Queen Anne was visiting at her palaceof Falkland, Bothwell, a relation of the earl who was Mary Stuart'shusband, made a furious attack on it. He was repulsed, but entered thestables and carried off all the horses. The queen was so annoyed atthis rude adventure that she removed at once to Dalkeith. MargaretTwineslace, one of the Danish maids of honor, was engaged to be marriedto John Wemys, one of the king's gentlemen, who was known to be inconstant communication with Bothwell. He was, therefore, suspected ofknowing, at least, that the attack on Falkland was to take place, thoughthere was no proof of his having participated. Still he was shut up inthe guard-room of Dalkeith Castle, and every one thought his life was indanger.
One night, when it was Margaret's turn to sleep in the queen'sbed-chamber, she waited until the royal pair were in the land ofNod, then softly stole out and went to her lover's prison, where shetold the guard that the king had sent her to command them to lead JohnWemys forthwith to the queen's apartment, where his majesty wished toquestion him. Never, for a moment, suspecting that they were deceived,two sentinels led the prisoner to the queen's chamber door. Margaretthen charged them to remain outside quietly, and taking her lover by thehand, led him boldly into the room and closed the door. Without speakinga word she softly opened the window, and, presenting John with a rope,helped him to let himself down and escape.
The guard waited patiently until morning dawned, then raised the alarm,which led to the discovery of the little trick. The queen laughedheartily when she heard how Wemys had escaped, and begged the king topardon him.
James himself was amused at the adventure, and issued a proclamationoffering pardon to the escaped prisoner if he would return to hisduties. This he did within a few days, and soon after married the Danishmaid-of-honor who had risked so much for his sake.
[[A.D. 1594.]] In 1594 Queen Anne had a little son born at StirlingCastle. He was baptized according to the Episcopal ritual of Scotland,and named Henry-Frederic. The ceremony was conducted with great pomp,and after it was over the queen received all the foreign ambassadors.They brought costly presents, and Queen Elizabeth sent a set of silverand several cups of massive gold, so heavy that Sir James Melvilledeclared he could hardly lift them.
The young queen loved her little son so tenderly that when she found itwas her husband's intention to leave him at Stirling Castle to be caredfor by the Earl of Marr and the old countess, his mother, she was sorelygrieved and begged that she might keep the child with her. But theking refused, saying, "that he knew the infant was in safe keeping withMarr, and though he doubted nothing of her good intentions, yet if somefaction got strong enough she could not hinder his boy from being usedagainst him, as he himself had been against his unfortunate mother."
No doubt Anne ought to have been satisfied to make a virtue ofnecessity; but she could not understand any argument but that of her ownheart, which prompted her to rebel against the Marrs because they hadpossession of her darling, [[A.D. 1595.]] She fretted and wept until theking was beside himself to know what was best to do. When little Henrywas fifteen months old his mother requested that the question of hisguardianship might be settled by council; but James was too shrewd tosubmit to that proceeding, so he urged the queen to satisfy the cravingof her heart by going at once to Stirling Castle. But that was not whather majesty desired; therefore, she declared that she was not well,and refused to stir. James insisted, and obliged his wife to obey bysuperintending the arrangements for the journey and turning a deaf earto all her objections. Finding that there was no help for it, Queen Anneset out on horseback with her train of attendants; but with her usualperversity she feigned illness, and stopped at a palace by the way.She was anxious to see her baby, no doubt, but could not bear that herhusband should find her too yielding; so, on every occasion when hedeemed it necessary to oppose her, she made him suffer for it. Yet JamesVI. was a devoted husband throughout his life, and never took a firmstand against his wife unless urgent reasons required it.
As soon as the Earl of Marr was informed of the queen's whereabouts hehastened to pay his respects to her; but she absolutely refusedto see him, and her people treated him so uncivilly that he was glad toreturn to Stirling Castle. It was foolish in Queen Anne to insult herhusband's most faithful friend and the man who had charge of her infant,but that was not the extent of her folly.
During the king's absence on his summer travels she actually went so faras to plan an expedition, which she meant to head, for the purpose ofcarrying off the infant prince by force. Fortunately, James heard ofit in time to reach the place where his wife was stopping and bring herback to her senses. He at once accompanied her to Stirling Castle, whereshe was permitted to fondle little Henry as much as she pleased.
It was not unnatural that Queen Anne should want to keep her child withher; but she showed decided want of character in insisting upon it afterthe king had explained to her that the safety of his own person, thechild, and the kingdom required this sacrifice at her hands. Hadshe taken pains to inform herself she would have seen that all themisfortunes of the preceding kings of the line of Stuart had arisen onaccount of their having been minors at the time of their accession. Thethrone had in each case been claimed for the son, which necessitatedthe destruction of the father and the appointment of a regent. Thus thestrongest party had ruled according to their own ideas of justice.
It was to prevent the recurrence of such a miserable state of affairsthat King James fortified his son in a well-guarded castle, under thesupervision of such tried friends and loyal subjects as the Earl of Marrand his mother.
[[A.D. 1596.]] Anne's outbursts of temper because of this arrangementwere for a time appeased, when her second child was born. It was a girl,and received the name of Elizabeth for the Queen of England. The infantprincess was given in charge of Lord and Lady Livingstone, thoughthe ministers of the Episcopal Church objected on the score of thelatter's adherence to Catholicism. This child afterwards became Queen ofBohemia.
There were two people among Queen Anne's court who occupied a veryprominent position, and were specially favored with her protection.These were Alexander and Beatrice Ruthven, members of a family inScotland who claimed royal descent. The Ruthven family had attained theearldom of Gowry, and its members had aided in three separate assaultson the personal liberty of the sovereign; they were, therefore, thecause of a great deal of fighting and bloodshed.
[[A.D. 1597.]] Young Alexander became the object of King James'sjealousy on one occasion. It occurred in this wise: "One day, whenthe queen was walking in the gardens of Falkland Palace with BeatriceRuthven, they suddenly came upon the maid-of-honor's brother, Alexander,a youth of nineteen, who lay fast asleep beneath the shade of a largetree. For a bit of fun her majesty tied a silver ribbon around his neck,which had been given to her by the king, without arousing the sleeper.Presently King James himself came along. The silver ribbon caught hisattention, he stooped to examine it, frowned, and looked angrily on theyouth, who was, by the way, a gentleman-of-the-bed-chamber, then hurriedon without waking young Ruthven. Beatrice, who had been anxiouslywatching this little scene from behind a neighboring bush, rushedforward, snatched the ribbon from her brother's neck, and hastened withit through a private entrance to the queen's room. Hurriedly opening adrawer, she deposited the ribbon therein, and had just time to informher majesty 'that her reason for so doing would be presently explained,'when the king entered, and in a threatening tone demanded thesilver ribbon. Luckily Anne was able to produce it, and thus dispelthe angry frown that had gathered on the brow of her lord, nodoubt congratulating herself upon the possession of so sagacious amaid-of-honor."
For the time being King James's jealousy was appeased; but the Gowryconspiracy aroused it again three years later, and Alexander Ruthven wasagain the object of it.
[[A.D. 1600.]] The queen was awakened much earlier than usual onebright, warm morning in August by the king's preparations for a huntingexpedition. She asked "why he started so early;" to which he replied,"that he wished to be astir betimes, as he expected to kill a prime buckbefore noon."
It was true that he was going hunting, but he had another object inview. He had been informed by Alexander Ruthven that a Jesuit with alarge bag of gold had just been seized and shut up at Gowry House, inPerth, awaiting examination. It was no unusual occurrence at that erafor any one besides a common robber to take possession of whatever goldmight be found on the person of a traveller, and then spare no effortto prove said traveller Jesuitical. So King James set forth in high gleewith the prospect of counting over a bag of gold, besides enjoying amorning hunt. Several hours were passed in the latter diversion; and atnoon, accompanied by only one or two attendants, the king left the woodsand entered Gowry House. He was received by the Earl of Gowry, youngRuthven's elder brother, who had just returned from the court of QueenElizabeth. After dinner, at a sign from Alexander Ruthven, the kingwithdrew, expecting to be introduced to the Jesuit with the gold.Unsuspectingly he followed the young man up various winding stairs andthrough gloomy, intricate passages to a circular room, used by theGo wry family as a prison. He was surprised, on entering, to behold agigantic man in a complete suit of black armor, and still more so whenAlexander closed the door and locked it, cutting off all retreat.

He then made an assault upon the king,--who, though unarmed, kept himat bay,--and reproached him with the death of his father, the Earlof Gowry. The man in armor took no part in the struggle. The kingremonstrated with Alexander, and reminded him that he was a child whenthe late Earl of Gowry was beheaded, and had nothing whatever to dowith it. He also spoke of the affection the queen bore to his sisterBeatrice, and of the kindness and attention he himself had received atcourt. Young Ruthven paused for a moment, then made a second attackupon the king, who would surely have been murdered but for the vigilanceof his page, young Ramsay. This youth missed his royal master, and,suspecting some evil, sought him through the house. The king's voice,calling for help, guided the boy's steps to the circular chamber, whichhe entered through a private door, having forced it open. He flew atAlexander Ruthven and dragged him from the king's throat, shouting allthe time for help. Some of the Gowry servants rushed upon the sceneand assisted Ramsay, who was struggling with Alexander Ruthven. At thisjuncture the rest of the royal hunting party arrived, and broke openthe door, but not until the Earl of Gowry, who proved to be the man inarmor, and young Ruthven were slain.
[[A.D. 1601.]] This conspiracy created great consternation in Scotland.It was a dark, gloomy night when the king set out with his retinueto return to Falkland Palace; but all the people swarmed out of theirhouses with torches, and shouted with joy to behold their sovereign safefrom the hands of traitors.
In 1601 a little prince was born at Dunfermline, who later becameCharles I. of England.
[[A.D. 1603.]] A couple of years after this event Queen Elizabeth died,and King James was invited to come to London, and take possession of thecrown under the title of James I.
Of course this was no surprise; it was an exaltation that had beeneagerly anticipated by the royal family as well as the whole nation.Yet when the moment arrived for the king to bid farewell to his Scottishsubjects, it was very like a father parting from a numerous family, andmany tears were shed. On the Sunday before his departure from Englanda sermon was preached on the subject in church, to which King Jamesresponded, bidding his people a loving and tender farewell. He wentto England alone, having arranged that the queen should follow in twentydays, providing his reception was such as to assure him that his familywould be safe and happy. On his arrival there he was greeted with suchwild demonstrations of joy that he was perfectly astonished. "Thesepeople will spoil a good king," was his pithy remark to the Earl ofMarr, who had accompanied him.
No sooner was Queen Anne convinced that her son's guardian was wellout of the way, than she set off for Stirling Castle, accompanied by astrong body of nobles, never doubting that she could easily intimidatethe Countess of Marr into the surrender of her son Henry. But the oldlady proved herself equal to the emergency, and flatly refused to giveup the boy unless ordered to do so by the king himself. Some fightingensued, and the queen flew into such a tremendous passion that shebecame seriously ill, and had to be put to bed in the royal apartmentsof the castle.
Messengers were forthwith despatched to inform the king of the conditionof his silly, spoiled wife, and of the action that had occasioned herillness. With his usual forbearance, James forgave his spouse, andthought only of her illness. He immediately sent the Duke of Lenox andthe Earl of Marr to see what arrangements they could make to pacify hermajesty.
The royal lady not only refused to see Marr, but would not receive herson from his hands, nor travel from Stirling to Edinburgh if he were ofthe company,--so thoroughly did she hate one of her husband's most loyaladherents.
When this whim was conveyed to James, he swore a great many oaths, andwrote a letter of remonstrance to his better half, which, however, didnot mollify her in the least. Then the royal husband compromised byordering Marr to deliver the young prince to the Duke of Lenox, whowould consign him with due ceremony to the queen, and then to hasten toEngland, where his presence was greatly needed.
This arrangement pacified Anne, and she removed at once to Holyrood tomake preparations for leaving Scotland. These were completed in a coupleof months.
Her majesty was met at Berwick by the ladies of Queen Elizabeth's court,who carried her the costumes and jewels of the defunct queen.
King James ordered that the queen's household should be settled beforeher entrance into London, so that she might be properly escorted on thatoccasion. But the royal pair could not agree as to the appointments, forAnne desired to retain her Scottish subjects in the principal posts ofhonor, and his majesty knew that the English would not submit to thatarrangement.
He appointed Sir George Carew for the queen's chamberlain. Her majestypersisted in retaining Kennedy; whereupon James, whose patience had beensorely tried by the number of applicants who had presented themselvesfor confirmation, flew into a passion when Kennedy appeared before him.He bade him "Begone!" and added "that if he caught him carrying thechamberlain's staff before his wife he should take it out of his handand break it over his pate."
The Scotchman very prudently made the best of his way back home, andthen Queen Anne accepted the English chamberlain, but retained all herScottish ladies, adding to their number only two of her new subjects.
Her two elder children accompanied her, and they were enthusiasticallyreceived everywhere. Among the presents that were generously bestowedon them were silver cups filled with gold-pieces. When they arrivedat Althorpe an exquisite _fête_, prepared by Ben Jonson, awaited them.It was called the Masque of the Fairies, and took place in amagnificent park, where, accompanied by joyful music, fairies and satyrsrecited appropriate poems of welcome, and made presents to the royalfamily.
The queen was so delighted with Ben Jonson's genius that she afterwardsemployed him to prepare entertainments for the amusement of her court.
The first festival held at Windsor Castle after the arrival of theroyal family was for the purpose of bestowing the title of Knight of theGarter on Prince Henry, the Duke of Lenox, and other nobles.
The queen openly expressed her pride and admiration of Prince Henry whenhe was presented to her in the robes of the Garter, which she pronouncedexceedingly becoming.
In consequence of the plague, which was raging to an alarming extent inEngland, the coronation was postponed from time to time, and when itdid take place the usual procession from the Tower through the city toWestminster was dispensed with, and the ceremony was performed almostin private. The people were so disappointed that a grand festival waspromised to them as soon as the pestilence should abate. It took placewith great splendor the following spring, when the king, queen, andPrince Henry participated.
In the household of Anne of Denmark there was an office filled by an oldlady called "the mother-of-the-maids," whose duty it was to keep orderamong the ladies,--no doubt an exceedingly difficult one.
The belle of the court was Lady Arabella Stuart, whose descent made herthe next heir to the crown of England after James I. and his family.Previous to the arrival of James there had been a plot, headed by SirWalter Raleigh, formed for the purpose of asserting that lady's claim;but that fact did not make any impression on the sovereign's mindthat could affect her unfavorably; on the contrary, he distinguished herwith marked favors, and allowed her, as she deserved, the rank of firstlady at court after the queen.

The conspirators of this plot were brought to trial during the autumnwhile the court was sojourning at Winchester Palace, and many ofthem were pardoned just at the moment when they were being led to thescaffold. King James did this to make them appreciate the full extentof his mercy, though many of them were banished afterwards. Sir WalterRaleigh was shut up in the Tower, with his sentence hanging over hishead, to be carried into effect at the royal pleasure. He was not,however, deprived of his income or his actual property, because thequeen interested herself in his behalf, and felt very sorry on accountof the cruel treatment he had received from the attorney-generalduring his trial. It was supposed by some people that she, as well asPrince Henry, doubted his guilt, but there is no proof of that.
[[A.D. 1604.]] When Prince Charles was between three and four years ofage his health was so bad that Sir Robert Carey and his wife, who hadcharge of the royal child, were ordered to bring him from Dunfermline tohis parents. From that time he improved so rapidly that he soon became arobust boy; and as years went by, and he developed into manhood, he wasdistinguished for his graceful bearing and splendid constitution.
[[A.D. 1610.]] One of the proudest and happiest periods of Queen Anne'slife was when her eldest son was created Prince of Wales. The eventwas celebrated with great splendor, and Ben Jonson wrote an addressin verse, which was read, while a pantomime represented the prince aswakening and reviving the dying genius of chivalry.
The royal parents, the Princess and Prince Charles stood at the bridgeby Westminster Palace to receive the prince when he arrived, escorteddown the Thames in state by the lord-mayor and city authorities.
The gratified mother conducted him into the palace. A number offestivals succeeded, and the king introduced his son formally to theassembled houses of parliament during the following week.
A grand masque was given, in which all the ladies and gentlemen of thecourt took part, the music, painting, dancing, and decorations beingguided and arranged by Inigo Jones, an architect of great talent. Eventhe queen and the princess-royal took part, and devoted several days torehearsing the dances and situations and preparing costumes.
The object of this masque was to deliver presents to thenewly-created Prince of Wales. The court ladies personated nymphs ofthe principal rivers that belonged to the estates of their husbandsor fathers, and eight of the handsomest nobleman attended these rivernymphs as Tritons.
Prince Charles appeared with a dozen young ladies of his own age andsize. They were daughters of lords or barons, and personated the naiadsof springs and fountains.
The prince, as Zephyr, wore a short robe of green satin, embroideredin gold; silver wings were attached to his shoulders, and a garland offlowers encircled his brow; on his right arm, which was bare, the queenhad clasped a valuable diamond bracelet.
The naiads wore pale blue-satin tunics, embroidered in silver; theirhair hung in loose tresses, and water-lilies crowned their heads. Thesechildren danced a ballet,--Prince Charles always occupying the centre ofa group,--which was enthusiastically applauded by the whole court.
Prince Charles's next duty was to offer to his brother, the Prince ofWales, the queen's present, which consisted of a jewelled sword, valuedat four thousand pounds, attached to a scarf of her majesty's own work.He also presented a gold trident to the king as ruler of the ocean. Thispresentation was made during an address by one of the Tritons.
Her majesty was then invited to descend from the throne and dance herballet with her water-nymphs. This was succeeded by another dance ofthe little naiads, and the entertainment concluded with the queen'squadrille. The summer morning had dawned when the gay party dispersed.
[[A.D. 1612.]] Two years later the Prince of Wales, that youth ofeighteen, who was the joy of his parents and the pride of the wholenation, was attacked with the worst and most malignant form of typhusfever, which resulted in his death on the 5th of November, 1612.
It was the anniversary of the Gunpowder Plot, and the procession ofgrotesque figures presented a strange contrast, as they swarmed aroundSt. James's Palace, to the sad scene that was enacted within. When atlast young Henry's death was announced, loud lamentations filled theair, and those who had left their homes to mingle with the festivitiesof the day returned bowed down with grief.
It was many months before the poor queen recovered from the shockproduced by the death of her dearly-beloved boy, and she was still sodepressed when the marriage of her daughter was solemnized that shewas scarcely fit to be present. However, she aroused herself for thatoccasion; but the reaction was so great after the departure of theprincess from England that she was ordered to Bath by her physicians.The change proved of great benefit, and by the end of the summer hermajesty had regained her health and spirits.
Sometimes she shot at the deer from a stand. On one occasion she missedher aim, and hit the king's favorite hound. No one dared to announce thedreadful accident to his majesty, but he discovered the dead animal,and stormed so outrageously that it was many minutes before he could beinformed whose hand had sent the deadly arrow. He was instantaneouslymollified, and not only sent his beloved spouse a most affectionatemessage, but followed it with a jewel worth two thousand pounds,pretending it was a legacy to her from his dear, dead dog.
[[A.D. 1614.]] A visit from her brother, the King of Denmark, gave thequeen a great deal of pleasure. His sole object in going to England wasto see her, whom he loved very dearly. He travelled _incognito_,and although one of the queen's attendants recognized him after hisarrival at the palace, and told his sister of his presence, she wouldnot believe it until he stole up behind her chair and gave her a kiss.The king, who was travelling through the country, was summoned homeforthwith to receive his royal guest, and on his return there was afortnight of hunting, bear-baiting, hawking, plays, and feasts. Justbefore his departure the King of Denmark entertained the English courtat his own expense with the finest display of fireworks that had everbeen witnessed in their country. After this visit Queen Anne never sawher brother again, though she corresponded with him until her death.
It was while King James was on a visit to his native land, where he wentfor the purpose of establishing parish schools, that his wife's healthbegan to fail. Three years previously her physicians had treated her fordropsy, from which she had never entirely recovered, and now a dreadfulcough was added to the other malady. She was hastily removed to HamptonCourt, where she was tenderly cared for. After his return, the king wentto visit his wife two or three times a week, when he was well enoughto do so, but his health was by no means good, for he had gout in hisknees.
[[A.D. 1618.]] About this time the poor sick queen received a mosttouching appeal from Sir Walter Raleigh, whose death-sentence was aboutto be carried into effect. It was written in verse, and ended thus:--
               "Save him who would have died for your defence!
               Save him whose thoughts no treason ever tainted."
Queen Anne interceded for Sir Walter in vain, though she asked as apersonal favor that his life might be spared,


for he was beheaded on the 29th of October, 1618. It is notreported how her majesty bore the news of Sir Walter's death; but herown was so near at hand that she probably viewed all affairs of thisworld with calmness and resignation, and turned her thoughts to thefuture state.
King James was not with his wife during her last moments, but PrinceCharles kneeled at her bedside and received her dying blessing. She wasconscious to the end, and when the Bishop of London prayed, he said:"Madame, make a sign that your majesty is one with your God, and long tobe with him." She held up her hands, and when one failed she raised theother until both dropped, and she was no more.
The royal corpse was taken to Somerset House, where it lay in state forthree days, and was then carried to the grave by ten knights, followedby most of the nobility then sojourning in London. The Countess ofArundel was chief lady mourner, and walked between the Duke of Lenoxand the Marquis of Hamilton. All the ladies of the royal household cameafter, and as each one was enveloped in from twelve to sixteen yards ofheavy black cloth, it was difficult for them to walk even at a funeralgait. Prince Charles preceded the funeral car, which was drawn by sixhorses, and the Archbishop of Canterbury walked by his side. The queen'sriding horse was led by one of the officers of her household, and halfa dozen heralds carried banners and flags bound with _crepe_ just behindthe pall.
Queen Anne of Denmark died in the forty-sixth year of her age, andwas buried at Westminster Abbey. She left two children, one who becameCharles I. of England, and the other was Elizabeth, Queen of Bohemia.



CHAPTER VI. HENRIETTA MARIA, QUEEN-CONSORT OF CHARLES I., KING OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND
(A.D 1609-1669.)
|Henrietta Maria, wife of Charles I., was the youngest child of HenryIV. of France, and his second wife, Marie de Medicis.
[[A.D. 1609.]] She was born at Louvre in 1609, and Madame de Monglat,the royal governess, took charge of her, as she had done of all herbrothers and sisters from the time of their births.
This princess had a grand baptism, no less a person than the pope'snuncio acting as sponsor. The name given to her was Henrietta Marie, butit became anglicized when she was so young that we must speak of heras she was known during the greater and more important part of herexistence.
She was unfortunate in having a mother who was so weak-minded, petulant,and bigoted as to be quite incapable of instilling into her children thewise principles that they needed to fit them for the battle of life.
The little Henrietta was but six months old when her father was killedby Ravaillac; and her first appearance in public was made on theoccasion of his funeral. She was carried in the arms of Madame deMonglat in the doleful procession, and her baby hands sprinkled themurdered


corpse with holy water, according to the national custom inNormandy.
The coronation of Louis XIII. followed close upon his father'sassassination; but in consequence of his extreme youth his mother wasappointed queen-regent, and civil war never ceased to rage in Francewhile she continued in power.
The royal children were kept at Fontainebleau, safe from thedisturbances that were going on in Paris. It was the beautiful daughterof Madame de Monglat who superintended the toilet and daily life oflittle Henrietta, and the child loved her so dearly that she called herMamanga, an Italian pet name, meaning mamma, and learned from the lipsof Marie de Medicis, who was a native of Italy.
The religious education of the little princess was guided by a Carmelitenun, whom she visited at stated intervals during her childhood. Sheand her little brother, Duke Gaston, who studied together, were taughtmusic, painting, and some of the lighter branches, but were never putto any solid work; and later in life Henrietta often lamented her slightknowledge of history, saying that all her lessons of human characterwere learned from her own sad experience. She was a beautiful child,very much spoiled and flattered, and frequently summoned from thenursery to appear at public entertainments. When she was but six yearsold her mother took her to Bordeaux to witness the departure of hereldest sister, Elizabeth, to become the wife of the King of Spain, andthe arrival of Anne of Austria, the Spanish bride of Louis XIII.
About six years after her husband's death, France had become sodesolated by the civil wars brought on by unwise government, that thequeen-regent was imprisoned at the Castle of Blois, and the boy king ofFrance assumed the power. Princess Henrietta shared her mother'simprisonment for three years. At the expiration of that time she waspresent at the marriage of her sister Christine to the Duke of Savoy,and this event was succeeded by a reconciliation between Marie deMedicis and the young king. This was brought about by her almoner, whoafterwards became Cardinal Richelieu, and thenceforward her influence inthe government of France was greater than ever.
[[A.D. 1625.]] When the Princess Henrietta was sixteen years old JamesI. sent Lord Kensington to France on a secret mission to find outwhether her hand could be obtained for his son Charles, who had by thattime become the most elegant and accomplished prince in Europe.
The queen-mother was delighted with the prospects of such a match forher daughter, but would give no decided answer until the girl herselfhad been consulted.
It was not long before every one at the French court knew the objectof Kensington's visit, and the ladies crowded around the handsomeEnglishman to question him about the Prince of Wales, and to examine theminiature of the royal gentleman, which the ambassador wore suspendedfrom a ribbon around his neck.
Etiquette forbade the princess even to mention her royal suitor, muchless to look at the picture she was dying to behold. But, rememberingthat the lady at whose house the ambassador sojourned had been in herservice, Henrietta went to her and begged her to borrow the miniature,that she might feast her eyes on it as long as she pleased. This wasdone, and the young lady blushingly gazed upon the face of her futurehusband, and expressed her entire satisfaction with his appearance.
Kensington lost no time in reporting her little stratagem; it was hisintention to promote the alliance between Prince Charles and PrincessHenrietta, so he expatiated on the


beauty, graces, and accomplishments of the former to the ladies ofthe French court, and wrote to England about the princess: "She isthe sweetest creature in France and the loveliest thing in nature. Hergrowth is little short of her age, and her wisdom infinitely beyond it.She dances as well as I ever saw any one; she has a wonderful voice, andsings admirably."
When it was ascertained that the marriage would be agreeable to bothroyal families, the Earl of Carlisle joined Kensington for the purposeof preparing the treaty.
Then the pope raised an objection on the score of religion; for he didnot believe the Catholic princess could be happy with a Protestant,husband in a country where her co-religionists had been persecuted.
However, the queen mother had set her heart on the marriage; so after agreat deal of debate it was agreed that Henrietta and all her attendantsshould be made welcome, and should have liberty to observe theirreligion in England; that she should renounce all claim to the Frenchthrone, and that her children should be brought up under her care untiltheir thirteenth year.
[[A.D. 1625.]] As soon as the treaty was signed King James ordered allpersons imprisoned for religion to be released, fines levied againstCatholics to be returned, and the execution of convicted papists tobe stopped. This was the origin of all the opposition of the Englishparliament to the Stuart monarchs.
King James died before the marriage took place. The ceremony wasperformed at Notre Dame, a prince of the house of Guise representing theroyal groom. The Duke of Buckingham, with a splendid train of Englishnobles, met the bridal party at the church door, in order to escort theyoung Queen of England home.
The whole court and royal family of France prepared to accompanythe bride to the coast in magnificent style; but at the last momentLouis XIII. was prevented by illness from travelling, and the entireretinue were detained for two weeks at Compeigne by a dangerous maladywhich attacked Marie de Medicis.
Charles I. was at Canterbury when his bride arrived in England, but hehastened to Dover to meet her as soon as the tidings were brought him.She was at breakfast when he was announced, but arose promptly and randown stairs to meet him. She would have knelt and kissed his hand, buthe drew her towards him and pressed her in his arms. Then the brideattempted to recite a little speech that she had prepared, but hercourage failed, and she burst into tears. Charles treated her verykindly, drew her gently aside, and soothed her with loving and tenderexpressions.
The weeping girl was soon reassured, her dark eyes brightened, and sheconversed freely with her royal lover. Then she presented all herFrench attendants by name,--"Mamanga," now Madame St. George, being theprincipal of her ladies.
The royal party left Dover the same day, and stopped at Canterbury,where all the English ladies of the queen's household were assembled tobe presented to their royal mistress. It was in the open air on a Junemorning that Henrietta held her first court. The king assisted her toalight from her carriage, and after the presentation a magnificent feastwas served.
The royal pair entered London by the river Thames, hundreds of beautifulbarges forming a procession, which was greeted by thundering salutesfrom the navy. That evening the bells rang till midnight, bonfiresblazed on every side, and rejoicing was kept up for several days.
King Charles opened his parliament with his bride seated beside him onthe throne, and soon after retired for


several weeks to Hampton Court, because the plague was raging sodreadfully in London.
The young queen was very attractive at this time. She was of mediumheight, but possessed a beautiful figure, her complexion was fine, faceoval, eyes large, dark, and sparkling. Her hair was black, her teethhandsome, her forehead, nose, and mouth large, but well-formed.
The king loved his little wife devotedly, and gave her the pet name ofMary,--a very unpopular one to English lads; but Charles declared thathis people would soon forget their prejudice against it for the sake ofthe blessings the present bearer of it would bring them.
Before many months the French attendants became objects of jealousy anddislike to the king, and notwithstanding the agreement that formed partof the marriage treaty he determined to get rid of them. Not only was itobjectionable to the king that his wife should have mass celebrated inthe palace, but his own attendants found fault with this arrangement,and Father Sancy, the queen's confessor, made himself obnoxious byinsisting upon the establishment of a Roman Catholic chapel. Besides,Henrietta was so thoroughly under the influence of her French householdthat King Charles feared she would never become attached to him orhis country. He thoroughly disliked Madame St. George, who was alwaysthrusting herself forward, and interfering between him and his wife; butthe most serious cause of displeasure that Charles I. had against theFrench attendants was that they influenced the queen in her refusal toshare his coronation.
This was an unpardonable piece of ignorance and bigotry, injurious tothe king and dangerous to herself; for it was charged against her inlater years that she had never been recognized as the consort of CharlesI.
[[A.D. 1626.]] The king was therefore crowned at West- minsterAbbey alone, his young and lovely wife refusing even to be present atthe ceremony. This obstinacy was a death-blow to her popularity, andincreased the difficulties that surrounded her husband. The Duke ofBuckingham, who was in Paris, was notified that the French attendantswould be sent home, and the king wrote a letter to his brother-in-law,Louis XIII., in justification of the proceedings.
One day King Charles entered his wife's apartment at Whitehall, andfound her attendants dancing about, and behaving in a manner that heconsidered disrespectful to the queen, so taking her quietly by thehand, he led her into a side room and closed the door. Presently anorder was received bidding her majesty's French servants, young and old,to repair at once to Somerset House, there to await the king's orders.The women wept and lamented as though they had been summoned toexecution; but the guard cleared them all out of the queen's apartmentsand bolted the doors after them.
Meanwhile a stormy scene was being enacted between the royal couple.Henrietta flew into a rage when her husband told her what he had done,and rushed to the window to bid farewell to her train. The king drew heraway, telling her "to be satisfied, for it must be so." Then she brokethe panes with her fist, and his majesty was obliged to hold her wristsuntil her temper abated.
She was not permitted to see her country-people again, excepting hernurse, her dresser, and Madame de la Tremouille,--those three beingretained in her service.
In a few days the king repaired to Somerset House, and in a set speechinformed the French household of the necessity of dismissing them totheir own country, and promised them their wages with gratuities to theamount of twenty-two thousand pounds. These people had robbed thequeen to such an extent that she was actually left without a change oflinen, and had, besides, contracted debts in her name.
It was not until the following month, when the king sent a body ofstout yeomen to turn the late attendants out of Somerset House by theshoulders, if they would not go otherwise, that they finally departed.
The royal couple had been married just one year when all the Frenchattendants, including Father Sancy, returned to their native land.
The queen attributed her husband's turning off her household sosummarily to the influence and advice of Buckingham, whom she dislikedthoroughly.
She became so restless and unhappy that she wanted to go back to France,and wrote her mother to that effect, repeating the grievances of whichthe banished household had already given an exaggerated account.
The Duke de Bassompierre, a man of sense and spirit, and an old friendof Henry IV., was sent to England to inquire into the wrongs ofwhich Henrietta complained. He found her dreadfully incensed againstBuckingham, the prime minister, with whom she had had a violent quarrel,though she knew scarcely any English, and he very little French.Nevertheless he managed to make her comprehend him when he told her "tobeware how she behaved, for in England queens had had their heads cutoff before now."
Henrietta assured de Bassompierre that the prime minister was constantlymaking mischief between her and her husband, because he was jealous ofher influence.
Bassompierre had several private interviews with the young queen, theking, and Buckingham, which resulted in a complete reconciliation.But her majesty was displeased because her father's old friend neitherflattered nor spoiled her, and so she fell out with him, and by theexpiration of a fortnight the reconciled parties were more angry witheach other than ever before.
The new subject of quarrel was the king's refusal to permit more thanthree chaplains for the performance of the Catholic service in thepalace. Henrietta was too young to reason sensibly about her husband'saffairs, and she was such a fervent Catholic that she could bear noopposition concerning her religion from her Protestant husband. Herposition was an exceedingly difficult one, and all the errors shecommitted were the result of her youth and inexperience.
The French ambassador had to begin his work all over again; and soadroitly did he manage, that in the course of a few days he had arrangedall the disputed points. It was agreed that the queen should have twochapels built for her, one at St. James's, the other at Somerset House.
A bishop, ten priests, a confessor, and ten musicians were to befurnished, as well as ladies of the bed-chamber, a clear-starcher, twophysicians, an apothecary, a surgeon, a grand-chamberlain, a squire,a secretary, a gentleman-usher, a valet, and a baker, all from hermajesty's native land.
Even then the queen was not satisfied. She continued to play the vixento such an extent that, regardless of her rank, Bassoinpierre tookit upon himself to administer a bit of plain language. She had beenflattered into believing that all her little tyrannies were quitebecoming to a pretty queen, but she was now told that she behaved unlikea true wife, and that her conduct should be reported to her family inFrance.
Henrietta was surprised at this honest dealing; but the effect waswholesome, and secured for her nearly eighteen years of happiness withher husband. Instead of being received with honors on his return toFrance, de Bassompierre was frowned upon because he had avoided extrememeasures in his capacity of mediator, and because he had spoken thetruth too plainly.
Shortly after a war broke out between England and France; but it didnot in the least disturb Queen Henrietta's tranquillity, for she and herhusband were never on better terms.
But the French nation despised Charles I., and considered his wife amartyr and a victim. This led to the belief in an imposture of a crazygirl, who, calling herself the persecuted Queen of England, presentedherself at a convent in Limoges, and claimed the protection of thenuns. She declared that she had escaped from England because she waspersecuted on account of the true faith. She described the court andhousehold of the queen so correctly that she was eagerly listened to bythe whole neighborhood, who flocked to see her. Louis XIII., who knewhow happily and peacefully his sister was then living, was so incensedat this imposition that he had the girl imprisoned, and she was heard ofno more.
[[A.D. 1628.]] The sudden death of Buckingham occurred when Henriettawas just eighteen years old, and she was thus rid of a person who hadnever ceased to be an object of dislike to her.
Queen Henrietta had a great fancy for dwarfs; so, at an entertainmentgiven to her once when she was making a _progress_ through her kingdom,an immense venison pasty was placed in the centre of the table. Thecrust was removed and Geoffrey Hudson, a little man just eighteen incheshigh, stepped out, prostrated himself before her majesty, and asked tobe taken into her service. His request was immediately complied with,and he was employed to carry state messages of slight importance. He wasnot the only dwarf at courts for there was a married pair of theselittle monsters besides.
[[A.D. 1630.]] The queen had a son born at St. James's Palace in 1630,who succeeded to the throne as Charles II.
A Welsh nurse was provided for the royal infant, because it was thecustom that the first words uttered by any Prince of Wales should beWelsh.
He could not have been a handsome child, for his mother wrote of him toher friend, Madame St. George: "He is so ugly that I am ashamed of him;but his size and fatness supply the want of beauty."
[[A.D. 1632.]] The royal family was increased by the birth of a daughtera couple of years later. She was named Mary, baptized, as her brotherhad been, according to the form prescribed in the Book of Common Prayer,and placed under the care of Catherine, Lady Stanhope.
Henrietta's unpopularity was increased to an alarming degree on accountof her laying the corner-stone of a Capuchin chapel, in the courtyard ofSomerset House. She had already commenced one at St. James's; and whenthe Roman Catholic service was celebrated in them, about two yearslater, it was most injurious to the prosperity of the king, although ithad been agreed that these chapels should be built. Henrietta refusedto take part in her husband's coronation in Scotland as she had done inEngland, consequently he went alone.
[[A.D. 1633]] On his return another prince was added to the family, andbaptized James. His title was the Duke of York. He was a handsome baby,and his father destined him for the navy. Henrietta was a fond mother,and devoted much of her time to the nursery. Etiquette prevented a queenfrom entertaining guests with her voice, but its magnificent strainsoften filled the galleries of the palace when she sang to her infants.
[[A.D. 1638.]] In 1638 King Charles incurred the displeasure ofCardinal Richelieu by offering a home in England to Marie de Medicis.This cardinal owed much of his grandeur to the queen-mother of France,but when she was in distress he turned his back on her.
[[A.D. 1641.]] Marie de Medicis prolonged her stay in England nearlythree years. During that period she witnessed the riots and disturbancesthat led to the execution of the Earl of Strafford,--an event thatseriously grieved Charles I. and his wife, and that, in the end, wasdisastrous to both.
In the midst of these scenes of terror, Mary, the princess-royal, whowas just ten years of age, was publicly espoused, at Whitehall chapel,to the son of the Prince of Orange, a boy of eleven.
The queen-mother had been so maligned by the rioters that she wasterrified for her personal safety, and insisted on departing forthwithfor Holland. She was escorted, by the king's orders, as far as Dover,and about the same time Charles I. set out on a journey to Scotland.
During his absence the queen's confessor, Father Phillips, was summonedseveral times by parliament, for examination, and ominous threats weremade regarding the establishment of Capuchins at Somerset House. Signsof civil war were daily becoming more numerous and more marked, SirEdward Nicholas, the king's private secretary, wrote a letter urging hismajesty to dismiss the monks at the next session of parliament; but hewould take no decided steps in opposition to his wife's religion withoutconsulting her. The consequence was that an infuriated mob destroyed theCapuchin chapel a year later.
[[A.D. 1642.]] Among the queen's attendants was Lady Carlisle, who,while appearing loyal, was acting the part of a spy, and reportingevery incident of the royal household to the Roundhead leaders.
These Roundheads were Puritans, and it was Queen Henrietta herself whonamed them, because their hair was clipped so close and short that theirheads looked like balls, and formed a marked contrast to the flowinglocks of the courtiers.
When parliament informed the queen that she must surrender her childreninto their hands until her husband's return, lest she should makepapists of them, she refused, but left them at Oatlands and went to liveat Hampton Court, hoping thus to keep her five little ones together andremove all cause of complaint. Her youngest child, Henry, was then onlya few months old.
Henrietta knew that she was closely watched, and had reason to fear thather children might at any moment be seized and taken away from her; so,like a true mother, she took every precaution to prevent it. She had aship ready to receive them at Portsmouth, and a hundred cavaliers with asupply of five horses at her disposal; but no attack was made.
The Irish rebellion broke out that autumn, attended with all the horrorsof civil strife and religious persecution. The Roundheads accusedQueen Henrietta of having encouraged the massacre, although there is noevidence of her having done so.
When the king returned from Scotland he was received with every markof loyalty. His family went to meet him, and the populace assembledto greet their sovereign. He entered the metropolis on horseback,the Prince of Wales rode by his side, and the queen, with her youngerchildren, followed in an open carriage.
While in Scotland the king had ascertained that five members of thehouse of commons were traitors; so, taking advantage of his popularreception on his return, he made up his mind to arrest them. He confidedin no one but the queen. When he left her on the morning that he hadfixed for the arrest, he said: "If you find one hour elapse withouthearing ill news of me, you will see-me, when I return, the master of mykingdom."

Queen Henrietta watched the clock anxiously until the hour had passed,then turning to the treacherous Lady Carlisle she exultingly exclaimed:"Rejoice with me, for at this hour the king is, as I have reason tobelieve, master of his realm, for Pym and his confederates are arrestedbefore now."
For this indiscretion King Charles paid dearly. He had been stopped atthe entrance to the house of commons by a large number of persons, whopresented petitions which he stood to read and discuss.
This delay afforded Lady Carlisle ample time to dispatch one of heragents to inform the persons marked for arrest. They fled justas Charles entered the house, and their party organized a plan ofresistance on the spot. Insurrections followed, and the king andqueen retired to Hampton Court to watch the result. Parliament thenwarned all the nobility to arm, and prevent the king from going further.King Charles was surprised; for he had not the least idea that anyrestraint would be put upon his personal freedom.
The queen then proposed that she should go to Holland, under pretence ofconveying the princess-royal to her young spouse, the Prince of Orange,but in reality for the purpose of selling her jewels to provide the kingwith means of defence. No opposition was made to her departure, andthe Prince of Orange received her most cordially. Not so the Dutchburgomasters, who treated her with marked disrespect at first; but bythe end of one year she had so won them over by her tact, diplomacy,and courteous manners that she had raised upwards of two million poundssterling, all of which had been forwarded to her husband, who had raisedhis standard at Nottingham and commenced a warlike struggle.
Meanwhile the Princess of Orange pursued her studies in Holland, whereshe soon won the affections of the people, and her alliance proved amost happy one.
[[A.D. 1643.]] Queen Henrietta set out on her return to England just ayear after she had left. She sailed in an English ship, accompanied byeleven smaller ones filled with stores and ammunition for the king. Thefleet was commanded by the Dutch admiral Von Tromp.
A tremendous gale blew them about for nearly a fortnight, the travellerssuffering all the torments of sea-sickness, and expecting every momentto go to the bottom.
The queen behaved bravely on this trying occasion, and cheerfullyreplied to the wailing and lamentations of her ladies: "Comfortyourselves, _mes chères_; queens of England are never drowned." The poorpriests on board were as sick as the rest, but they had to listento the confessions of the terrified ladies and gentlemen, who bawledout their sins, regardless of the presence of others, in a way that musthave been truly amusing.
At last the queen landed safely at a port near the Hague, having losttwo of her ships. After two days' rest she again set sail, and made aquick voyage to Burlington, where, guarded by a thousand cavaliers onland, and Von Tromp at sea, she went ashore. The next morning, at dawn,five ships-of-war, that had entered the bay during the night, began acannonade on the house where the queen was sleeping. She was obligedto rise in haste, put on her clothes, and seek shelter in a ditch somedistance from the town of Burlington. Bullets fell thick about her asshe hurried on foot to the place of shelter, and one of her servantswas killed. Nevertheless, when Henrietta remembered that her favoritelap-dog had been left behind, she ran back, hastily climbed the stairsto her bed-chamber, caught up the animal, and carried it off in safety.One ball grazed the edge of the ditch where the royal party wereconcealed, and covered them with earth and stones. At night theattacking ships retreated, much to her majesty's relief, for she thenremained quietly for ten days in the neighborhood of Burlington.
While there she distributed arms to those gentlemen who seemed loyallydisposed, and thus gained many friends for the king.
A captain of one of the ships that had bombarded the queen's house onthe morning after her arrival was caught on shore, tried by a militarytribunal, and sentenced to be hung. The queen happened to meet theprocession when the prisoner was being conducted to execution, andinquired what was the matter. She was told that King Charles's loyalsubjects were about to punish a man who had aimed at her. "Ah,"replied the queen, "but he did not kill me, and he shall not be put todeath on my account." The captain was then set at liberty, and so deeplywas he touched by Henrietta's generosity that he came over to the royalcause, and persuaded several of his shipmates to do likewise.
[[A.D. 1644.]] Previous to the battle of Newbury, so fatal to his cause,Charles escorted his wife to Abington, and there this devoted coupleparted never to meet again.
The queen was ill when the Earl of Essex advanced with his army tobesiege the city in which she had taken refuge; but rising from her bedshe escaped in disguise with one lady, one gentleman, and her confessor,leaving behind her an infant only a few weeks old.
She hid for two days in a hut by the roadside three miles from Exeter,and lay couched under a heap of rubbish when the parliamentary soldiersmarched by. She heard them say "that they meant to carry the head ofHenrietta to London, and receive for it a reward of fifty thousandcrowns." As soon as they were gone she stole out of her hiding-place,and with her three companions travelled on to a wood, which became therendezvous that night for all her faithful attendants. Geoffrey Hudson,the dwarf, was of the number, and everybody was in disguise.
The whole party pushed on to the coast and embarked on board a friendlyDutch vessel.
Meanwhile the king, by a series of victories, had fought his way toExeter, where he hoped to see his dear Henrietta, but she had been goneseveral days when he arrived. He beheld his new baby--a princess--forthe first time, and had her baptized under the name of Henrietta Anne,after her mother and her good aunt in France.
Queen Henrietta did not reach her native land without another trial;for her vessel was chased by a cruiser in the service of parliament, andseveral cannon balls fired at it. The danger of being taken or sunkbecame so great that the queen took command of the vessel herself,had every sail set for speed, urged the pilot to keep straight on hiscourse, and charged the captain to fire the powder magazine if escapewere impossible. She was determined not to fall into the hands of herhusband's enemies, and preferred death to the disgrace of being draggedcaptive to London.
However, she did not have to resort to such an extreme measure, for ina few hours she landed at Bretagne. Such a sorry spectacle did the queenand her attendants present that the natives took them for pirates andarose in arms against them; but no sooner were they convinced that itwas the daughter of their beloved King Henry IV. who had sought refugeamong them, than they speedily took measures to supply all her wants,and provided her with equipages to convey her to the baths of Bourbon,where she hoped to regain health and strength.
Anne of Austria, who was then queen-regent, sent her confidentiallady-of-honor to Henrietta, with offers of all the assistance it wasin the power of France to bestow, and supplied her with liberal sums ofmoney; but Queen Henrietta stripped herself of every farthing shecould command to send to her husband, over whose misfortunes she weptconstantly.
Queen Henrietta was met on her return to Paris, and most affectionatelywelcomed by the queen-regent and the little King Louis IV., who escortedher to the Louvre, where a luxurious suite of apartments had beenprepared for her. They treated her with the consideration due to aqueen, and, as a daughter of France, she was supplied with the liberalincome of twelve thousand crowns per month.
But she deprived herself even of necessary comforts in order that shemight keep her suffering husband supplied. A few days after her arrivalin her native land she removed to St. Germains, a country-palacethat the queen-regent had placed at her disposal. There she lived inretirement, and her wants being less, she was enabled to save largersums to send to England.
The affairs of King Charles had grown from bad to worse; and with hisusual thoughtfulness for his family, he instructed his sons to escapefrom a country where neither he nor they could hope for protection.
[[A.D. 1645.]] Accordingly both the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Yorkmade their way to Paris, where they spent some time with their mother,then joined the English fleet that had forsaken the Cromwell party, andwas lying off the coast of Holland.
The same year Lady Morton, who had been left at Exeter with the infantHenrietta Anne, made her escape, disguised as a beggar, and, with thechild in her arms, travelled on until she placed her in her mother'slap. The queen's heart was gladdened at the sight of her little one,whom she covered with kisses, and called "child of benediction."
She had made up her mind that this little princess should become aCatholic, and for that reason appointed Père Gamache to instruct her.
Now, so long as the royal family of France were rich, Queen Henriettashared their prosperity, and was treated with the utmost respect andconsideration, but when their own civil wars reduced them to a state ofdestitution she had poverty added to her other troubles.
She behaved nobly when her sister-in-law, Anne of Austria, was in dangerfrom the fury of her own subjects, and left her quiet retreat at St.Germains to share her danger in Paris during the battles of the Frondeand the Barricades. It was she who acted as peacemaker between thequeen-regent and her people, and she had become such a favorite inFrance that after much trouble and many privations she finally succeededin restoring order.
[[A.D. 1648.]] But the Christmas of 1648, before this was accomplished,Cardinal de Retz, who was one of the principal leaders of the Fronde,but a good friend to Queen Henrietta, found her shut up in an apartmentof the Louvre with little Henrietta, without any fire, although it wasa cold, snowy day. The sorrowing mother had kept the four-year oldprincess in bed lest she should suffer from the cold, but both werewithout food. The cardinal supplied the necessary comforts forthwith,and on the same day represented to the parliament of Paris the distressin which he had discovered the daughter of their former king. Hiseloquence was the outpouring of a kind heart, and met with an immediateresponse, for a subsidy of twenty thousand livres was instantly votedfor the destitute queen.
Then she wrote to Lord Fairfax in England, asking his assistance, thatshe might see her husband once more. This letter was delivered to thehouse of commons, and contemptuously thrown aside, with the remark "thatthe writer had been voted guilty of high treason in 1643."
Thus ended all hope of being reunited to the husband whose afflictionsshe shared and for whose sake she would willingly have died. Added tothis was the suspense the queen endured while the civil strife in Parisand its neighborhood rendered the passage of couriers impossible.
King Charles might well have escaped from England and joined his wife,but nothing could induce him to enter France as a supplicant sovereign.He preferred to suffer and struggle alone, through four long years ofinsult and abuse,--most shocking to us of the present day to read about.
The Roundheads grew so powerful that, with Oliver Cromwell fortheir leader, they became a body of ruffians, who either thrust intoa dungeon or expelled any of their band who evinced the least mark offavor towards the king.
Through treachery Charles I. had fallen a prisoner in their hands.They showed him no mercy; they granted him no justice. A handful ofself-appointed judges went through the mockery of a trial, and condemnedtheir unfortunate sovereign to the block.
On the day before the execution Princess Elizabeth and the Duke ofGloucester, the only royal children who remained in England, wereadmitted to their father's prison to bid him farewell. They bothsobbed passionately. King Charles drew them to his bosom with words ofconsolation, and solemnly blessed them.
He told the princess not to grieve for him, for his was a gloriousdeath,--for the laws and religion of the land; advised her what booksto read; bade her to forgive his enemies, as he hoped God would, andcharged her to be obedient to her mother, and to tell her that his lovefor her would be the same to the last.
Then taking little Gloucester on his knee, he said: "Sweetheart, nowwill they cut off thy father's head. Heed, my child, what I say: theywill cut off my head, and perhaps make thee king; but, mark what I say,you must not be a king so long as your brothers Charles and James live;therefore, I charge you, do not be made a king by them."
Earnestly looking up into his father's face, the boy replied: "I will betorn in pieces first." This unexpected answer pleased his majesty,who with a few more words of advice fervently kissed his children, andordered them to be taken away. They sobbed aloud, and the king turnedaway as they passed out, and leaned his head against the window tryingto repress his tears. While this painful interview was taking placeCromwell and his gang of ruffians sat in secret conclave to determineupon the hour of their victim's death; and some of them swore later thatit was only violent threats on the part of their leader that forced themto place their signatures to the fatal warrant.
The noble and dignified bearing of the king as he ascended the scaffoldwas noticed by all who saw him, and the populace, who were kept at adistance by a dense mass of soldiers, wept amidst their blessings andprayers for the martyr king.
Charles made a short speech, saying that "if he had been a despothe might have remained their sovereign; but he died to preserve theliberties of the people of England." Some one touched the axe while hewas speaking. "Have a care of the axe!" he exclaimed, "if the edge bespoiled it will be the worse for me."
Then his executioner kneeled before him and asked forgiveness. Charlesdrew himself up with proud dignity and replied;--"No! I forgive nosubject of mine who comes deliberately to shed my blood."
He then said a short prayer, raised his eyes to heaven, then placed hishead upon the block. It was severed with one blow, as a cry of agonyarose from the horrified multitude.
Queen Henrietta did not hear of the dreadful fate that had overtaken herhusband for several days; and when at last it was communicated to her,she stood motionless as a statue, without words or tears.
The visit of the Duchess de Vendôme, whom the queen tenderly loved,produced a change in the afflicted widow, who burst into a passionatefit of weeping at the tender words of sympathy expressed by her friend.She called herself the most miserable woman on the face of theearth, and resolved to retire with a few of her ladies to the CarmeliteConvent in Paris. She well knew that for the future life could containnothing but bitterness for her, and said: "I have lost a crown, but thatI had long ceased to regret; it is my husband for whom I grieve,--thegood, just, wise, virtuous man, so worthy of my love and that of hissubjects."
She named herself _La malheureuse reine_, and mourned for King Charlesto the day of her death.
[[A.D. 1649.]] Queen Henrietta was not long permitted to enjoy thepeaceful retirement of the convent; for her son, the Prince of Wales,determined to return to England, and desired to consult his mother aboutit. She therefore met him at St. Germains in the summer of 1649, andafterwards returned with him to her former apartments at the Louvre.
In the following autumn, accompanied by his brother James, Duke of York,Charles went to the Isle of Jersey, where he was proclaimed King ofGreat Britain. Scotland acknowledged him next, and then followed thescenes of blood in Ireland, under the leadership of Cromwell, morehorrible than any that had ever been witnessed in the world before.
Charles was absent more than two years; and while he was contestingfor his hereditary rights his young brother and sister, who were stillprisoners in England, were treated very harshly by the republicans.
[[A.D. 1650.]] In the September of 1650 Princess Elizabeth died of amalignant fever.
Cromwell had established a strong military despotism in the BritishIslands; and when Queen Henrietta demanded of him the payment of herdower, he replied: "That she had never been recognized as Queen-Consortof Great Britain by the people, consequently she had no right to adower."
This was because she had refused, on account of her religious bigotry,to be crowned with the king.
But the usurper did her a great favor when he allowed the young Duke ofGloucester to return to her. The permit said: "That Henry Stuart, thirdson of the late Charles I., had leave to transport himself beyond seas."
Queen Henrietta treated her sons most harshly because they refused tobecome Catholics, and adhered to the Episcopal church; in consequence agreat deal of ill-feeling and enmity had grown up between her and them,which at last drove them from her.
The young Duke of Gloucester went to Holland to live with his sister,the Princess of Orange, whose husband had died of small-pox a short timebefore she offered her brother an asylum.
Queen Henrietta remained at the Palais Royal with her youngest child asa guest of the queen-regent.
[[A.D. 1658.]] At last, in 1658, Cromwell died, and two years laterCharles II. was restored to the throne of England, without the sheddingof a single drop of blood. His brother, the young Duke of Gloucester,had accompanied Charles to England, where four months after theRestoration he died of small-pox.
[[A.D. 1660.]] In October of 1660 the Duke of York met Queen Henriettaand his youngest sister at Calais, where they embarked for England ingrand state. The vessels were all decked with gay flags, and as each onedischarged her cannon in regular order the noise was so great that itcould be distinctly heard at Dover. The channel was so calm that itssurface looked like a mirror. Not a breath of wind was stirring, and itwas two days before the English fleet could accomplish the passage thatusually took three or four hours. Fortunately the Duke of York hadprovided a sumptuous banquet for his mother, sister, and their wholeretinue, which passed a few hours pleasantly, and saved the travellersfrom hunger.
When the queen reached Dover, Charles II. went on board the vesselto welcome her, and conducted her to Dover Castle, where a pleasantsurprise awaited her.
Not only was a magnificent supper spread, but every member of the royalfamily of Stuart had assembled to receive Queen Henrietta, who once morehad the satisfaction of embracing each of her children in turn.
For the moment she was happy, surrounded by those she loved; but aftershe reached London she was overcome by the deepest sorrow. The sight ofthe apartments once occupied by her husband agonized her, and it wrungher heart to look upon the spot where he had suffered and died. She sankinto the deepest melancholy, and would shut herself up for hours at atime, denying admittance to any of her ladies.
Life in England became insupportable to the afflicted queen, and shedetermined to return to France.
[[A.D. 1661.]] In the evening of New Year's Day she gave an audienceto those who desired to bid her farewell, and then retired to HamptonCourt.
As the Princess Henrietta was engaged to be married to Philippe, theDuke of Orleans, parliament settled on her a liberal marriage-portion,and by the middle of January she sailed, with her mother, for France.
Two months later the marriage between Princess Henrietta and the Dukeof Orleans was solemnized at the Palais Royal; and when the young couplewent to pass the summer at Fontainebleau, Queen Henrietta retired to herfavorite château of Colombe, a few miles from Paris. The followingyear the Duke and Duchess of Orleans made her a long visit, thenaccompanied her to Calais, where she embarked to return to England oncemore.
[[A.D. 1662.]] Charles II. had married Catharine of Braganza duringhis mother's absence, and the royal couple received Queen Henriettaaffectionately, and welcomed her to Greenwich Palace. She remainedwith them until the summer, when Somerset House having been handsomelyrenovated, she set up her court there; but her health began to decline,and she sent for her son, the king, and told him that she could onlyregain strength in her native land. He urged her to repair to theBourbon baths, though it grieved him sorely to part from his motheragain.
[[A.D. 1665.]] She went first to her château of Colombe, where the Kingand Queen of France met and welcomed her, and after a short season ofrepose she proceeded to the baths of Bourbon.
[[A.D. 1669.]] But her health declined from year to year, and althoughher daughter and son-in-law were indefatigable in their lovingattentions, and summoned the most celebrated physicians of Paris to herbedside, she expired suddenly and painlessly at midnight of August 31,1669.
Charles II. and the Duke of York received the news with deep grief, andretired to Hampton Court, where they remained until all the mourningceremonies were completed at Whitehall.
Louis XIV. ordered a general mourning to be observed throughout Francefor his aunt,--not because she was a queen of England so much as becauseshe was the last child of Henry IV. of France. 



CHAPTER VII. CATHARINE OF BRAGANZA, QUEEN OF CHARLES II., KING OF GREATBRITAIN AND IRELAND.
(A.D. 1638-1705.)
|It was on St. Catharine's day that this princess was born, in the year1638, and it was in honor of that saint that she was named. When shecame into the world, Portugal was under the rule of Spain, and had beenso for sixty years, not because the Portuguese were contented with thedespotic laws that governed them, but because they did not feel strongenough to fight for liberty.
When a nation considers itself oppressed by tyrannical laws, secretorganizations are sure to be formed for the purpose of shaking off theyoke in one way or another.
In all the principal towns of Portugal these patriotic associationswere formed at the time we speak of, for the purpose of throwing off theSpanish yoke; and the period was rapidly approaching when their effortswere to be crowned with success.
It was to the Duke of Braganza, Catharine's father, the last of theold royal line, that the larger party looked with hope and confidence.Meanwhile, with a desire to keep clear of the watchful eye of his foesand the dangerous intrigues of his friends, the duke removed to hisPalace of Villa Vicosa with his beloved wife, the Donna Luiza, and histwo little sons. While living at that most charming spot, that has beenjustly named a terrestrial paradise, the duchess added a daughterto her family circle,--the little Catharine, of whom we have spoken. Shewas baptized at the parish chapel during the following month, and hergodfather was a Spanish grandee of high rank and enormous wealth. Theceremony was performed with great pomp, and gifts of considerable valuewere bestowed upon the little girl. She was such a pet in her family,that each birthday was the occasion of a sumptuous _fête_. On thesecond anniversary of her birth an incident occurred which connected thecelebration of it with no less important a matter than the emancipationof Portugal from the Spanish yoke. On that day Don Gaspar Cortignoarrived at the Villa Vicosa, and requested an immediate interviewwith the duke. This being granted, he presented an appeal from hiscountrymen, urging the duke to declare himself their leader, and toaccept the crown to which he was justly entitled.
[[A.D. 1640.]] The nobleman listened attentively to all that hisvisitor said; but he was at a loss for a reply, while, he thoughtfullyconsidered his position. On the one hand was the Portuguese crown, whichwas his by inheritance, on the other the blessings of a happy home, witha charming, affectionate family, and the peaceful possession of estates,comprising not less than a third of the realm. Should he risk everythingto embark upon an enterprise fraught with danger, perhaps ruin? He couldnot decide; but, like a dutiful husband, consulted Donna Luiza. Withouta moment's hesitation, she replied: "This day our friends are assembledaround us to celebrate the anniversary of the birth of our littleCatharine; and who knows but this new guest may have been sent tocertify to you that it is the will of Heaven, through especial grace, toinvest you with that crown of which you have long been unjustly deprivedby Spain. For my part I regard it as a happy presage that he comeson such day." Then lifting up her daughter, and holding her before theduke, she added, "How can you find it in your heart to refuse to conferon this child the rank of a king's daughter?" That was enough; thefather decided, though the statesman had faltered; ambition for hischildren won the Duke of Braganza's consent, and thenceforth he woulddevote his life to the welfare of his country.
A few days later he removed with his family to Lisbon, where he wasproclaimed king, under the title of Juan IV. Then began a fiercestruggle, in which many battles were fought and won by the Portugueseagainst their powerful enemy. They were fighting for freedom, and theirdesperate charges counterbalanced the superior numbers of Spain. Inmoments of discouragement and despondency Donna Luiza was always near tofill her husband's breast with courage and hope.
[[A.D. 1644.]] England immediately recognized Don Juan as sovereign ofPortugal; but the pope refused to do so, and was imitated by all theCatholic courts of Europe, excepting France. Four years were spent inbattling for the liberty which was won at last by a decisive overthrowof the Spanish forces in 1644.
Having accomplished this, Juan IV. sent Sabran as ambassador to Englandto negotiate a marriage between the Prince of Wales, who afterwardsbecame Charles II., and his little daughter Catharine. The treasury ofKing Charles was so nearly empty at that time, that the liberal dowerJuan was able to bestow upon the infanta would no doubt have been veryacceptable, but there were other considerations. Catharine of Braganzawas a Catholic; and as the difference of religion had created so muchunhappiness between himself and his own wife, Charles I. hesitated tothrust the same domestic infelicity on his son, who was


of course a Protestant. And so, for the time being, no decisivemeasures could be taken for the marriage.
[[A.D. 1656.]] Don Juan did not live long to enjoy the lofty positionfor which he had struggled so desperately; for he died towards theclose of the year 1656, in the prime of life, but worn out with care andanxiety.
By her father's death Princess Catharine became an heiress of greatwealth; for Don Juan left a will bequeathing to his daughter the islandof Madeira, the city of Lanego, and the town of Moura, with all theirterritories and rents. She received other sources of income, besides,with the proviso that if she married in a foreign land, she was torelinquish all to the crown and receive the equivalent in money.
Donna Luiza carefully studied the aspect of affairs in other countriesbesides the one she ruled, and her penetration enabled her to foreseethat the restoration of Charles II. to the throne of England was merelya matter of time. That being the case, she made up her mind to workfor an alliance between that prince and her daughter, hoping therebyto strengthen the position of her own realm. All other proposals,therefore, for the hand of the infanta were regarded with disfavor.
The elder Princess Dowager of Orange was not so keen-sighted; for whenCharles was sojourning at a village in Flanders, while he was stillan exile, he fell in love with the Princess Henrietta, daughter ofFrederick Henry, Prince of Orange, and would have married her, but thedowager declined the offer, saying, "that she saw no chance for theamendment of his fortunes."
A few months latter, when a deputation from parliament arrived withfifty thousand pounds for Prince Charles, and an invitation to return toEngland, the old lady could have bitten her tongue out for the blundershe had made, and endeavored to repair it. But Charles was tooindignant to listen to any of her overtures, or ever to forgive theinsult she had offered him in his adversity.
[[A.D. 1660.]] Henrietta was extremely anxious to see her eldest sonunited in marriage with a princess of her own faith; so, once when shewas on a visit to England, she manoeuvred until matters were brought tosuch a point that the Portuguese ambassador was authorized to interviewthe prince's lord chamberlain on the subject. The former importantpersonage was no other than Don Francisco de Mello, the godfather ofCatharine. He began by praising the virtues of the king, and added,"that it was time he should bestow himself in marriage, and that nothingought to keep him single but the difficulty of finding a suitableconsort."
The lord chamberlain, Earl of Manchester, assented. Thereupon DonFrancisco continued: "There is in Portugal a princess, in her beauty,person, and age, very fit for the king, who would have a portionsuitable to her birth and quality. She is a Catholic, to be sure, andwould never depart from her religion; but she has none of that meddlingactivity which sometimes makes persons of any faith troublesome whenthey come into a country where another mode of worship than their own ispractised. She has been bred under a wise mother, who has taught her notto interfere in state affairs, of which she is entirely ignorant." Theambassador concluded by informing the earl that he was authorized topropose the princess for a wife to the king, accompanied with offerssuch as no other power in Europe could make.
This conversation was duly reported to Charles, who sent to DonFrancisco for further particulars. An early interview was granted theambassador, who repeated what he had said to the lord chamberlain, andadded, furthermore, "that he was authorized to offer five hundredthousand pounds sterling in cash as a portion for the Infanta Catharine,besides the possession of Tangier, on the coast of Africa, which was tobe made over to the crown of England forever. Free trade in the Braziland the East Indies was to be granted to the English nation; andthe island of Bombay, with its spacious bay, towns, and castles, waslikewise to belong to them."
Charles was dazzled with such a brilliant offer, and hastened to consultLord Clarendon, his prime minister, on the subject.
Clarendon refused to offer immediate advice, and asked, "whether hismajesty had given up all thought of a Protestant wife."
Charles replied, "that he could not find one, except among his ownsubjects, and he had seen no one of their number, who had pleased himsufficiently for that purpose."
A secret meeting was then called of several members of his council, overwhich the king presided in person. He stated the business for which hehad requested their presence, and pointed out the importance of Tangierfor the benefit of trade on the Mediterranean sea.
One of the lords suggested the advisability of a Protestant queen.Charles asked "where he should find one?" Several German princesses werementioned, whereupon he exclaimed, impatiently: "Odds fish! They are alldull and foggy; I cannot like one of them for a wife."
It was then unanimously agreed that a matrimonial treaty should beopened, with all possible secrecy, with Portugal.
Delighted with the success of his mission, Don Francisco de Mellooffered to go back to his native land to complete the necessaryarrangements. The court of Lisbon was filled with rejoicing whenthe object of Don Francisco's return was announced. He was rewarded withthe title of Count da Ponte, and sent back to England with full power toconclude the marriage.
[[A.D. 1661.]] It was late in January when the count again set foot inLondon. To his surprise, the whole aspect of affairs had changed, and hecould not even obtain an interview with the king.
The reason for the change was this: The representatives of Spain knewwell that it would redound to their disadvantage if an alliance betweenthe royal houses of England and Portugal should be cemented; theytherefore endeavored to prevent it. One of their number happened to beon terms of intimacy with Charles, and could, therefore, speak plainlyon the subject of his prospective marriage.
His arguments made little impression until he dared to attack theprincess herself; but when he affirmed that she was ugly, deformed, anddelicate, the king began to fear that perhaps he had allowed himself tobe too easily influenced. The Earl of Bristol was a particular enemyof Clarendon, and prided himself on throwing a wet blanket over everyproject that minister seemed to favor. The earl had just returned from avisit to Portugal, and corroborated every statement made by the Spanishenvoy, merely for the sake of opposition. At the same time he drewa graphic picture of some of the Italian princesses he had met, andassured the king that if he would make his selection from their number,the Spanish government would agree to give the lady of his choice aslarge a portion as though she were of their royal blood.
As Charles was not in love with Catharine of Braganza, never having laideyes on her, he was easily turned from his purpose, and broke off allnegotiations with the Portuguese court. But he did not abandon hisintention to marry; and so despatched the Earl of Bristol to Parma tomake minute inquiries as to the qualifications of the princesses of thatcourt. The well-known fondness of Charles II. for handsome women obligedthe earl to make his observations with great care; so when one glance atthe ladies, on their way to church, convinced him that one was too fat,and both were too ugly, to please his royal master, he dared not presenta favorable report.
Meanwhile the king had taken pains to inquire of other travellers whohad been to Portugal, what sort of a woman the infanta really was; andthe descriptions he got were so different from those presented by theSpaniards, that he altered his manner towards Don Francisco, and beganto show him many marks of courtesy.
This enraged Vatteville, the Spanish ambassador, to such a degree, thathe openly declared, "that he was directed by the king, his master, tolet his majesty know, that, if he should proceed towards a marriage withthe daughter of his rebel, the Duke of Braganza, he had orders to takehis leave presently, and declare war against him."
This excited the king's indignation, and he manfully replied, "that theambassador might be gone as soon as he liked."
Then Vatteville found that he had gone too far, and resorted to the mostfulsome flattery in order to conciliate the irate king.
At last a special messenger arrived from France with a privatecommunication from Louis XIV., expressing regret that any obstructionto the Portuguese match had arisen; and assuring King Charles thatCatharine was a lady of rare beauty and accomplishments.
While Charles hesitated, he received a portrait of the dark-eyedinfanta, which, after all, made a deeper impression on hisheart than diplomatists, promises of wealth, or the reasoning of hislord-chancellor, could ever have accomplished. In this portrait theprincess was represented as a brilliant brunette, with large, dark eyes,and a profusion of brown hair arranged in short curls on each side ofthe head, and falling to the waist in ringlets at the back. "This personcannot be unhandsome," said the king, gazing attentively on the face ofthe woman he was so soon to marry.
The ambassador was summoned, and requested to repeat to his majestyall that England was to gain in the event of his marriage with thePortuguese princess. Don Francisco assured Charles that the money hehad promised in the name of the queen-regent was all sealed up in bagsawaiting transportation; and that the fleet which was to be sent for theprincess might even go first and take possession of Tangiers.
It was further agreed that the marriage should take place in England,although it was not customary for any princess to join her husband ina foreign land until after the ceremony had been performed with a proxyacting as bridegroom.
Donna Luiza preferred this arrangement, because the pope had neveracknowledged the independence of Portugal; and, as it would be necessaryto apply for a dispensation before a marriage could be contractedbetween a Catholic and a Protestant, she feared that he would mentionCatharine only as the daughter of the Duke of Braganza, and not as aprincess. This would have been a serious affront to the royal house ofPortugal, and most injurious to their cause.
On his part, Charles avoided anything disagreeable that might arise atthe coronation of a Catholic queen in England, by having himself crownedbefore such a person ex-


isted. Consequently, that ceremony was appointed for St. George'sday, April 23, 1661, and was celebrated with great splendor anduniversal rejoicing.
The following month Charles II. opened parliament in person, andimparted the news that he intended to marry "the daughter of Portugal."
In June, the treaty which united England and Portugal was signed by KingCharles at Whitehall; and the acquisition of Bombay, which it granted,gave England a foothold in India that she has retained ever since, as weknow.
The contract secured for Catharine the free exercise of her religionand the privilege of fitting up a chapel in any palace she might occupy,besides a settled income of thirty thousand pounds a year, with fullliberty to return to her native land, should she become a widow, withoutforfeiting her jointure.
Meanwhile, Vatteville was so enraged at being outdone, that, althougha Catholic representative, he circulated papers among the populace,setting forth the ills that must necessarily arise in England from theintroduction of a popish queen. He meant to do this secretly, but wascaught in the act of distributing some of these documents from his ownwindow among the soldiers. The king was so indignant that he senthis secretary of state to order the ambassador's immediate departure.Vatteville begged to be allowed to ask his majesty's pardon, but hisrequest was not granted, and the troublesome busybody was obliged to goback to Spain without being permitted to speak to the king again.
There was great rejoicing in Lisbon when the Count da Ponte arrived withfull power from the king to complete the arrangements for his marriage,and the streets rang with the cry of, "Long live the King of GreatBritain, whom God hath raised to protect us from our implacable foes!"The count was the bearer of a letter from the king to Donna Luiza,as well as one to the princess, whom he addressed as "The Queen of GreatBritain, my wife, and lady, whom God preserve." Both were consideredfine specimens of letter-writing in their day, and prove Charles II.to have been a clever correspondent. As soon as the marriage treaty wasratified, Catharine was addressed as queen, and treated with the utmostdeference at her brother's court. A great change had suddenly come tothe life of this young girl, and she was called upon to fill a positionfor which she was totally unprepared, and to become the wife of a merrymonarch, whose views of life were entirely different from her own. Wecannot help pitying her at the outset. She had been brought up under themost rigid laws, kept in seclusion, and only began to appear in publicafter she assumed the proud title of Queen of England. Ignorant of thetrials that awaited her in the future, Catharine watched for the arrivalof the Earl of Sandwich and the fleet that was to convey her to Englandwith the utmost impatience. No anxiety as to her fate marred the brighthopes of the young girl whose path seemed strewn with roses; she beheldnot the hidden thorns while listening to the flattering representationsof those around her, and prepared herself to leave her family and hernative land without a pang.
It was not until he had cleared the Mediterranean of pirates, taughtAlgiers and Tunis to respect the British flag, and taken possession ofTangiers in the name of his sovereign, that the Earl of Sandwich madehis appearance in the Bay of Lisbon. Now it happened that the Spanishtroops were marching to besiege a seaport town near Lisbon just when theEnglish ships sailed into the harbor, and as the town was not preparedfor resistance, it must certainly have fallen, and the consequenceshave been disastrous to Portugal. But alarmed at the assistance that hadcome, just in the nick of time to their enemies, the Spaniards madea precipitate retreat, and Catharine congratulated herself upon beingthe means of saving her country from ruin.
Sir Richara Fanshawe was the bearer of a miniature of King Charles tohis lady-love, accompanied by an affectionate letter. Catharine wasdelighted with it, and made numerous inquiries about her royal lover,whose romantic history had excited her admiration and wonder.
Charles passed the winter in making preparations for the reception ofhis bride; and while he was so engaged there were magnificent displaysof fireworks, illuminations, and bull-fights at Lisbon for the amusementof the English guests; and the queen-regent was so well pleased with theCount da Ponte's good management, that she signified her approval of itby again promoting him. He was created Marquez de Sande.
The greatest formality was observed at the reception of the Earl ofSandwich, and no point of etiquette was omitted that might tend to addto the importance of the occasion.
The earl had the honor of being presented to the queen-regent and QueenCatharine, to whom he delivered letters from King Charles, written inSpanish.
Several English gentlemen of rank were presented to the Queen of GreatBritain, who had been appointed officers of her household by the king,her husband, and she admitted them formally to their different posts.
_Fêtes_ and rejoicings were the order of the day; and nothing else wasthought of until the moment for handing over the money arrived. Thentrouble began; and this is by no means the first instance of its arisingfrom a similar cause.
In consequence of the late advance of the Spanish army, Donna Luizahad been compelled to fall back on some of the gold she had reserved forher daughter's portion, to meet the expenses incurred for the defenceof her realm. So she sent for the Earl of Sandwich, and after makingprofuse apologies, and explaining her difficulty, offered to pay downhalf the promised sum at once, and pledged herself to deliver the restwithin the year.
The ambassador was perplexed. He had been ordered to receive the entiresum, and knew perfectly well how much his sovereign depended upon it.Besides, he had already taken possession of Tangier, and had stationedan English garrison there. He dared not incur the expense of removingthe troops back home, nor would his gallantry permit him to insult thelady he was sent to convey to England by leaving her behind. His wasan exceedingly delicate position, and he behaved like a kind-heartedgentleman by consenting to receive Catharine with half the sum of moneyoriginally offered. Then rose another difficulty, which proves thatDonna Luiza was more diplomatic than honest; for when it came to thedelivery of the bags, they were found to contain, not gold, but sugar,spices, and other merchandise, which had been valued by the Portugueseat a much higher rate than was fair.
This was an imposition against which the Earl of Sandwich violentlyprotested, but that did him no good, for he could get nothing elseunless he would accept jewels, which he positively refused. After agreat deal of argument, it was at last arranged that Diego Silvas, aman of wealth and excellent character, should accompany the goods assupercargo, dispose of them in London, and pay the sum realized thereonto the king's exchequer. At the same time a bond was given by thegovernment of Portugal for the payment of the residue within the spaceof a year. Thus everything was settled at last, and the royal bridetook her departure. Although she was leaving her mother and hernative land, Catharine did not shed a tear. Everything seems to havebeen sacrificed for the formality of court etiquette--no sentiment beingpermissible.
The young queen, followed by the king and Don Pedro, her two brothers,the officers of the royal household, and a train of grandees, emergedfrom her apartments and descended the grand staircase to the main hall,where, at the entrance to the court chapel, she was met by her mother.This was the spot appointed for the leave-taking of the two queens.Catharine asked permission to kiss her mother's hand, whereupon DonnaLuiza folded her in a fond embrace, and blessed her. Then they parted,and Catharine was led to her carriage between her two brothers. Beforeentering she turned and made a profound courtesy to the queen-mother,who forthwith retired. Perhaps in the privacy of her own chamber,this woman, who, though a queen, was still a mother, gave vent to theemotions she had schooled herself to conceal.
It was St. George's day, and that saint being the patron of Portugalas well as of England, the festival was celebrated with more than thecustomary splendor.
Amidst salvos of artillery the queen's barge approached the "RoyalCharles," which carried eighty cannon and six hundred men, and Catharinewas assisted to mount the ladder that had been built for her specialuse.
As soon as she got on board, a salute was fired by the British fleet,and answered by the Portuguese forts. Then, having been formallydelivered over to the Earl of Sandwich, Queen Catharine was conducted toher cabin, where she bade farewell to her two brothers, who immediatelyreturned to the city.
Everything was now ready for the fleet to set sail excepting the wind,which proved contrary, and prevented the ships from leaving thebay. That night there was a general illumination and a magnificentdisplay of fireworks, both on land and water. The wind continuedunfavorable throughout the next day, and the queen-mother sentfrequently to inquire how her daughter fared on shipboard. There wasno complaint to make; for the royal cabin and state-room were mostluxuriously fitted up with damask furniture and curtains, costlycarpets, and soft downy cushions.
A little surprise was prepared for Queen Catharine that night by herbrother, the king, who with Don Pedro and a chosen party of courtiers,embarked in several barges with their musical instruments, and serenadedthe departing princess, performing the music and singing the sonnets andmadrigals that had been composed in honor of her nuptials.
On the morning of the twenty-fifth the wind changed and the voyagebegan. The fleet consisted of fourteen men-of-war; but only three, the"Royal Charles," the "Gloucester," and the "Royal James," were occupiedby Catharine of Braganza, her attendants, and officers of state.The others contained the queen's equipage and the merchandise thatrepresented half her dowry. There were more than a hundred Portuguesein Catharine's suite, the principal ones being two ladies of the highestrank, Donna Maria de Portugal, Countess de Penalva, and sister to theMarquis de Sande, and Donna Elvira de Vilpena, Countess de Ponteval.These were appointed to _chaperon_ the bride. Six noble young ladiesformed part of the suite also, and an English count very discourteouslydescribed them as "six frights, calling themselves maids-of-honor, anda duenna, another monster, who took the title of governess to theseextraordinary beauties." Besides these, there were six chaplains, fourbakers, a perfumer, and a barber.
The voyage to England was so tempestuous that some of the vesselshad to put in at Mount's Bay for repairs. All the passengers sufferedterribly from sea-sickness, and many of them from terror. The Duke ofYork's squadron awaited the fleet off the Isle of Wight, and as soon asit appeared in sight the royal brother-in-law sent his secretary in aboat to ask permission to kiss Queen Catharine's hand. Having obtainedit, the duke, accompanied by Lord Chesterfield, the Duke of Ormond, LordCarlingford, the Earl of Suffolk, and others, all in full dress, went ina barge to the admiral's ship. The Marquez de Sande received the partyand conducted them to the royal cabin. Catharine, dressed in an Englishcostume, was seated on a throne, under a richly embroidered canopy, whenthe duke was announced. She advanced to meet him; he knelt to kiss herhand, but she quickly raised him, and allowed him to salute her cheek.Then returning to her throne, Catharine conversed for a few minutes withhis highness, her almoner, Russell, acting as interpreter. But the Dukeof York spoke Spanish well; so in a few moments, after he had takena seat by the queen's invitation on her left, he continued theconversation in that tongue.
When the royal brother-in-law retired, Catharine advanced beyond thecanopy with him, but he tried to prevent it, telling her "she shouldrecollect her rank," whereupon she sweetly replied, "that she wished todo that out of affection which she was not obliged to do." This answerpleased the duke so much that he called to see his sister-in-law everyday, and a most friendly relation was established between them. On oneoccasion he expressed a desire to see her in her national dress; so thenext day she received him attired as a Portuguese lady.
The fleet arrived at Portsmouth, May 13, the Duke of York's boatfollowing the "Royal Charles," and the duke himself handed the queento her barge, when she disembarked. Countess de Pontevel attendedCatharine, but Countess Benalva was too ill to leave the ship. Thegovernor of Portsmouth, the city officials, and the leading personsof the neighborhood assembled on the beach to welcome the queen, whoentered an open carriage and drove through the principal streets, togratify the people's desire for a look at her. She had the good senseto appear in an English costume, so that she would not seem so much ofa stranger among her new subjects. It was not until five days after hisbride landed at Portsmouth that King Charles found time to leave home.He was accompanied by Prince Rupert, his cousin, and attended by a troopof his bodyguard. On reaching Portsmouth he went directly to visit thequeen. The Marquez de Sande and other dignitaries awaited his approach,and after being graciously received by the king, conducted him to anapartment, where he made his toilet before presenting himself to hermajesty.
Catharine had been ill for several days with sore throat and cold, andwas still confined to her bed, which, by the physician's order, she wasforbidden to leave. But now that he had come, Charles was so anxious tosee her that he insisted on entering her chamber at once. The Earl ofSandwich had the honor of attending him; and the interview, which wasconducted in Spanish, was entirely satisfactory to all parties. Charlesexpressed his pleasure at seeing his bride, and kindly assured her thathe was delighted to hear from her physician that her indisposition wasnot serious. She answered with so much prudence and discretion allthe king's questions that when he returned to his apartments hecongratulated himself on the fortunate choice that had been made forhim.
The following morning Catharine was so much better that it was decidedto have the marriage ceremony performed without delay. This wasaccordingly done after the manner of the Catholic ritual, no onebeing present but the Portuguese ambassador, a few nobles and ladies.After the queen's conscience was satisfied in this regard, it wasnecessary that the king's should be also; therefore a public Protestantceremony took place in the afternoon, Sir Richard Fanshawe having thehonor of being the king's groomsman.
The king was so delighted with his bride that he wrote his chancellorfrom Portsmouth: "I am so well satisfied that I cannot tell you howhappy I am, and I must be the worst man living (which I hope I am not)if I be not a good husband, for I am confident that no two dispositionswere ever better suited to each other than my wife's and mine."
The royal couple arrived at Hampton Court on the 29th, which, being theanniversary both of the king's birth and restoration, was observed asa national holiday. The usual rejoicings in honor of the queen's firstappearance among her London subjects took place, and she was welcomedwith every token of popular favor that could be devised. When theirmajesties alighted from their carriage they passed through a line ofguards, and were closely followed by the two Portuguese countesses andother ladies and gentlemen of the royal household. The high officialswere assembled at the palace to greet her majesty and kiss her hand,and the foreign ministers were also present to offer congratulationsof their respective sovereigns. As her majesty passed through the longsuites of rooms the nobility, gentry, and ladies of the court werepresented to her according to their rank. Poor Queen Catharine wasso fatigued by the time she had seen so many strange faces, madeinnumerable bows, and had her hand kissed _ad nauseam_, that she wasobliged to retire to her bedroom for a short repose. The same eveningthe Duchess of York arrived from London to pay her respects to herroyal sister-in-law. She was met by the king at the garden gate, and ledat once to the presence of the queen, who embraced her affectionately.Then the royal family seated themselves in the queen's bed-chamberand partook of a cup of tea, or "China drink," as it was called whenintroduced into England only a year or two before.
However, Catharine of Braganza was the first tea-drinking queen ofEngland, and no doubt she and her sister-in-law of York became quitewell acquainted over their social cup the first day they met.
A portrait in the historical gallery at Versailles, painted by Lely,represents Catharine as a very pretty little woman at the time of hermarriage. Her eyes, complexion, and hair are dark and handsome, andunmistakably those of a Spanish lady.
The queen's bed at Hampton Court was covered with crimson velvet,embroidered in silver, at a cost of eight thousand pounds, and waspresented to Charles on his departure from Holland to assume the crown.The large mirror and toilet were of beaten gold,--a present from thequeen-mother, Henrietta,--and the hangings were all of silk and gold,with embroidered canopies. Valuable paintings adorned the walls,luxurious carpets covered the floors, and magnificent Indian cabinets,brought from Portugal, stood in various parts of the palace.
The new and brilliant scenes by which Catharine was surrounded wereall so strange that, while they interested her, she found them veryfatiguing. She had been bred in a convent, as we know, and felt morereal gratification in her daily devotional exercises than in the gayetyin which she was often compelled to take a leading part, even when herinterest was not awakened. She heard mass daily, and was disposed tospend so much time in her chapel that the


ambassador, her godfather, felt called upon to remind her of herduties as queen and wife.
King Charles was the most witty, fascinating prince in Europe,thoroughly good-natured, brave, reckless, devoted to pleasure, anddevoid of religious and moral principles. The free and easy manners ofhis court shocked the innocent, virtuous little queen to such a degreethat she would have preferred not to appear in public at all. But her_naivete_ amused her husband, who devised all sorts of pleasures for herentertainment.
But Catharine's dream of happiness was soon to end in a rude awakening,when her tender, loving husband became unkind and unreasonable. Therewas a very bad woman at the English court, named Lady Castlemaine,whose husband was living in France This woman had managed by her wickedintrigues to gain great influence over the king, and she was universallydespised by everybody excepting his majesty. The queen-mother inPortugal had heard of this creature, and warned her daughter to haveno communication with her whatever. Therefore, when Charles, mostunreasonably, presented her name, at the head of the list of ladieswhom he recommended for appointments in the royal household, the queencrossed it off. Charles remonstrated, but Catharine was firm; thereuponCharles asserted his authority as king and husband. Catharine becameexcessively indignant, and passionately refused to have Lady Castlemaineamong her ladies. The matter was dropped for the moment; but the kingassumed an injured air, and made himself disagreeable for a few daysafter; without the slightest warning he introduced the objectionableparty to the queen before her whole court. He knew that he was wrong,and, like many a man before and since, felt angry with his wife becausesuch was the case. He reproached her with being stubborn and undutiful,and used threats that he never meant to put into execution. Sheburst into tears, told him that he was tyrannical and unkind, anddeclared that she would go back to Portugal.
One would suppose that the sight of a young, pretty woman in distresswould have moved the sympathies of the gay, light-hearted king; but hewas not accustomed to being ruled in that way, so he merely replied:"That she would do well first to learn whether her mother would receiveher, and he would soon give her an opportunity for knowing, for hewould forthwith send home all her Portuguese servants, who had, he knew,encouraged her in her perverseness."
Everybody at court knew that the king and queen had quarrelled, for theyscarcely looked at each other. If Catharine had known how to manage herhusband she might have won him; but she was too honest to flatter himmore than he deserved, and loved him too well to let him suppose shecould justify his conduct when she knew how much he had been to blame.She spent hours at a time in her room weeping, while he amused himselfwith his friends and treated his wife with indifference. He was moredeeply offended at her wishing to leave him than at any of her angryreproaches, and sent Lord Clarendon to talk to her in his behalf. Shewas very penitent, but insisted that she ought to have the privilegeof selecting her own servants, and would on no account consent to thepresence of an objectionable person.
After that King Charles brutally upbraided her with the non-performanceof the marriage treaty with regard to her dowry,--though she was not toblame for it,--and insulted the Portuguese ambassador on her account.Diego Silvas was thrown into prison because he was unable to completearrangements for paying the sum of money which was, in reality, not yetdue. Catharine knew that these indignities were aimed at herself,and felt very unhappy that others should be made to suffer on heraccount.
A temporary reconciliation was effected between the royal couple by thevisit of Queen Henrietta, who declared that she had come to England withthe express intention of offering her congratulations on their marriage.She set up her court at Greenwich Palace, and on the day after herarrival the young couple paid their first state visit together. QueenHenrietta awaited them at the first door of the palace after theyascended the stairs; and when she took the poor, neglected, almostheart-broken Catharine in her arms, and folded her in a motherlyembrace, the young woman must have felt that she had found a friendat last. The queen-mother could speak no Spanish, and Catharine littleEnglish, but the king and the Duke of York acted as interpreters. It isprobable that Queen Henrietta meant to intimate to her son, and to allthe courtiers present, the respect due the young queen when she said:"That she should never have come to England again, except for thepleasure of seeing her, to love her as a daughter, and serve her as aqueen." Catharine replied with gratified pleasure, "That in love andobedience, neither the king nor any of her children should exceed her."This visit lasted four hours, and seems to have had a good effect, foron their return to Hampton Court the king and queen supped in public,much to the delight of their court; and the next evening, when the kingreturned from a trip to London, her majesty went some distance on theroad with her household to meet him.
Queen Henrietta returned the visit of the royal couple, and spent nearlya month at Hampton Court, going back to London on the 23d of August, theday appointed for Catharine to make her first public entrance into themetropolis. This was done with great magnificence; crowds of peoplegathering to the banks of the Thames to view the array of boats thatfloated in attendance upon the royal barges. At six o'clock in theevening the king and queen, with their attendants, landed at WhitehallBridge, where the queen-mother, with her whole court, all in richattire, waited to receive them.
A series of entertainments succeeded; and King Charles, once havingintroduced Lady Castlemaine at court, insisted upon her presence always,though his conscience often pricked him for doing what he knew to bewrong. The fact was that he was surrounded by people who recognized nolaw but their own desires; and whenever they saw Charles disposed toyield to his wife's just opposition to the woman who entertained them,and who was one of them in dissipation, they jeered at him. He, onthe other hand, had not the moral courage to do right in spite of hisfriends. It was not because he respected Catharine less, but that heloved pleasure more. We must not suppose that all his statesmen approvedof his conduct; on the contrary, Lord Clarendon and others took him totask as much as they dared, and considered the queen an ill-used wife.
Charles had threatened to send all the Portuguese attendants back home,and at the expiration of four months after their arrival in England hedetermined to carry the threat into execution.
This was a sore trial to her, particularly as the king fixed upon a dayfor their departure without naming any reward for their services, orsending a letter to the Queen of Portugal to explain his reason fordismissing them. Catharine would have remunerated them herself, but shehad no money, and so could not afford to be generous. She begged herhusband to permit her to retain a few of them, and as a great favorhe consented to the old Countess of Penalva, two or three of thecooks, and the priests who officiated in her majesty's chapel.
Now, as we have said, the king's conduct was not approved by all thestatesmen; there were some among the most faithful of them who were sopained at the course he was pursuing that they ventured to censure himfor it. But he paid little heed to their wise counsel, and the party ofwhich they were the representatives grew daily in numbers and power.Had Queen Catharine not been a most sensible and magnanimous woman,she might well have united herself to this party in opposition to herhusband, and created no end of disturbance; but she loved King Charlesdevotedly, and was willing to make any sacrifice to obtain his affectionin return. She was wrong; for, while she opposed him, he could not butrespect her, because he knew that she was prompted by a sense of right,and it would have been better for her and for him if she had remainedfirm.
She yielded at last, perhaps under bad advice, and suddenly treatedLady Castlemaine with such courtesy as to surprise the whole court, KingCharles included. It is barely possible that her principal reason forthis concession was a desire to retain the king's support for her nativeland, which was just then greatly needed. Be this as it may, Charlesmisunderstood his wife, and attributed her former refusal to grant hisrequest to perversity and hypocrisy, and congratulated himself upon hisperseverence and decision. This, no doubt, colored his conduct later inlife. 



CHAPTER VIII.
[[A.D. 1662.]] |The New Year opened with a series of balls, receptions,and feasts; but poor Catharine felt little pleasure in them, for herhusband neglected her and spent his time in dissipation of the worstcharacter. His associates in vice endeavored to justify his treatment ofthe queen by ridiculing and depreciating her in every possible way. Theycould not appreciate her honesty or her piety, so they termed the onelack of brains and the other bigotry. Even her personal appearancewas caricatured; but although she smarted under the stings of theseworthless creatures she bore them uncomplainingly; no wound rankledin her breast as those inflicted by her husband's indifference andundignified behavior.
One source of trouble to Catharine during the first year of her marriagewas poverty. She did not receive half the amount that the marriagetreaty allowed her, and was forced to practice the most rigid economyto avoid falling into debt. This she did so successfully that thefinanciers of the government could not help applauding her for it.
When she was ill one summer, her physician recommended the medicinalwaters of Tunbridge Wells; but neither she nor her officers had anymoney to pay the expenses of such a trip, and it required at least twomonths before it could be raised.
[[A.D. 1663.]] Previous to Catharine's departure for the wells, shereceived the good news from her native land that she had eagerly hopedfor.

The combined troops of Portugal and England had defeated the Spanisharmy with great loss; and as the battle took place very near Lisbon,it had been desperately contested by the Portuguese, while the Queenof England awaited the result with breathless anxiety. Colonel Huntcommanded the English forces; and when he led them up a steep hill toattack the troops under Don John of Austria, the Portuguese generalexclaimed in ecstasy: "These heretics are better to us than all oursaints!"
Queen Catharine was so ill the following autumn that it was universallybelieved she could not recover. The king repented of his unkindness whenhe thought she was going to die, and passed many hours at her bedside,bestowing the most loving attentions upon his sick wife, which had sogood an effect that she recovered. Her convalescence was very slow, andalmost before she was pronounced out of danger she was called upon toreceive the French ambassador and another gentleman from the court ofLouis XIV., who brought messages of condolence from that monarch onaccount of the royal lady's illness.
It seems cruel that Catharine should have been disturbed with suchceremonies before she was strong enough to endure them; but we must notforget that she lived in an age when privacy was a luxury unknown toroyalty.
When she thought her death was at hand, she made her will, and gaveorders for many domestic arrangements. Her only requests to the kingwere, "that her body might be sent to Portugal for interment in the tombof her ancestors, and that he would remember the obligation into whichhe had entered, never to separate his interests from those of the king,her brother, and to continue his protection to her distressed people."Charles promised to obey; but by her recovery his wife spared him thetest.
In the last reign we told all about the Roundheads, and the origin oftheir name. Of course theirs ceased to be the popular party when theRestoration took place; consequently, with a desire to avoid the sneersof the courtiers, they adopted wigs, which after awhile became sofashionable that even those whose long locks had been a subject ofvanity to their possessors, had the folly to clip them off


and replace them with wigs or periwigs, as they were called. KingCharles fell in with the prevailing style when he found himself growinggray, likewise the Duke of York, whose hair was far too beautiful to beconcealed.
The necessity for economy that forced itself upon the queen soon begotfor her the reputation of stinginess, though it was rather a matterof prudence than otherwise. She was obliged to save because she seldomreceived her full income. Fortunately, her tastes were simple comparedwith those of her royal spouse; for while her bedroom furniture atWhitehall was of the plainest description, the only ornaments beingsacred pictures and relics, the king's apartments were fitted up withall the extravagance and luxury of an Oriental nabob.
[[A.D. 1664.]] The summer after her recovery, Queen Catharine appearedin a silver lace gown, and walked through the park to St. James'sChapel, attended by her maids-of-honor, one bright, sunshiny morning,all in the same glittering material. Parasols had not then beenintroduced into England, so the courtly dames shaded their faces fromthe bright rays of the sun with gigantic green fans,--a Moorish fashionintroduced by Catharine of Braganza at her court. Masks were often wornat that period to protect the complexion, but they were too warm insummer, and the shading fans were by far more comfortable. The tradewith India, opened to the English by the queen's marriage treaty, filledthe fancy shops with all sorts of gay and beautiful fans, which wereput to another use besides that of sunshades. Ladies found them veryconvenient for screens when carrying on a little flirtation; for awhispered conversation with a courtier behind one, or a bit of courtscandal thus imparted, seemed improved by this spicy addition to thesecrecy. Addison gives a pretty playful description of the use of thefan in several copies of the "Spectator," with which the belles ofthe present day are no doubt familiar.
Trade with other countries had increased in England, and her merchantswere anxious to push it still further; but Holland proved such aformidable rival in this matter that, notwithstanding the friendlyrelations that had so long existed between the two countries, Charlessaw the necessity for preparing his navy for hostilities.
Lord Sandwich was ordered to sea, and Queen Catharine was so anxious tosee the departure of the fleet that she and Queen Henrietta accompaniedthe king to Chatham for that purpose.
Shortly after this the Spanish ambassador aroused the queen'sindignation by demanding the return of Tangier to his government. Ofcourse Charles peremptorily refused; and the queen, out of a feeling ofspite, pretended that she could not speak any language but Portugueseand French when addressed by that dignitary. As he knew only hisnative tongue, she thus spared herself the necessity of a prolongedconversation with her enemy.
Once, on the occasion of a launch at Woolwich, Catharine played herhusband a sly trick. She went down from Whitehall with her ladies inher barge; but the water was so rough that they were all dreadfullysea-sick, excepting herself. The king, the Duke of York, the Frenchambassador, and the attendants went down in carriages by land. After thetwo parties met on ship-board, a violent rain and hail-storm detainedthem for a long time. As soon as it abated, the queen stole ashore withher ladies, took possession of the carriages, in which they returnedhome; leaving all the gentlemen to make the best of a very rough trip bywater.
[[A.D. 1665.]] The following year one of England's greatest navalvictories was won by the fleet under the Duke of York's command.The rejoicings occasioned thereby were cut short by the breakingout of the most terrible visitation of the plague ever known in England.Death, sorrow, and poverty spread from house to house, until theexceptions were those that did not bear a red cross in token of theexistence of disease within. The queen-mother quitted the country, and,as the epidemic increased, the court was removed to Salisbury.
Many people attributed the plague to the appearance of a comet that hadbeen observed a few months before. We of the present day laugh at suchan absurd superstition; but in the seventeenth century a visit fromone of those heavenly bodies was always contemplated with awe by theignorant, who were unfortunately in the majority. King Charles was notof the number, for he had a taste for astronomy, and was delighted tohave an opportunity of studying the comet in its different phases. Forthis purpose he spent several nights at the observatory at Greenwich, abuilding that he had founded, and Queen Catharine stayed with him twiceuntil she saw the curiosity also. She was not gratified the first time,because astronomical calculations were not so accurate as they are atpresent.
The king opened parliament in the autumn, when they voted him suppliesto carry on the Dutch war, which he greatly needed; for he was at thattime paying a thousand pounds weekly out of his own private purse torelieve the sufferings caused by the plague.
[[A.Dr 1666.]] The following year opened sadly for Catharine, becauseit brought news of the death of her beloved mother, the Queen-regent ofPortugal. All the court put on the deepest mourning, and were directed"to wear their hair plain, and to appear without spots on their faces."This referred to the patches of black plaster that disfigured the courtladies of that period. A few months later Catharine removed withher ladies to Tunbridge Wells again for the summer. This was a favoriteresort for the fashionables during the seventeenth century, QueenCatharine having made it so by her patronage. There, under the shadowof spreading trees, the gay company would promenade in the morning whiledrinking of the waters. On one side of the avenue, formed by the trees,were little shops filled with toys and all sorts of fancy articles; onthe other was a market. Neat-looking cottages, built here and thereover a mile and a half of ground that surrounded the wells, formed thedwelling-places of the visitors, who would assemble on the green in theevening just before sunset for a dance. After dark they would adjourn tothe queen's palace, where all sorts of amusements were indulged in forseveral hours. Catharine dispensed with ceremony at this watering-place,and endeavored to enhance the enjoyment of everybody by so doing. As asurprise to the king she sent for some actors, who performed comediesfor the entertainment of the court. One member of this company was thecelebrated Nell Gwynne, a beautiful actress, who afterwards became alady of the queen's bed-chamber.
While the king and queen, surrounded by their court, were thus engagedmaking pleasure the business of their lives, the aspect of publicaffairs was most gloomy. The poverty caused by the ravages of the plaguehad rendered it impossible to collect taxes, consequently the suppliesvoted by parliament for the carrying on of the war were not forthcoming.France had formed an alliance with Holland, and England was at war withboth powers. Added to these troubles was this: the country was filledwith hirelings of exiled Roundheads, who, while pretending to bepatriots, were really spies, dishonorably intriguing to raise aninsurrection in England.
On the second of September a fire broke out in a baker


shop, at the corner of Thames street, and spread with frightfulrapidity. It raged for four days, and the air was filled with theshrieks and lamentations of the men, women, and children, who rushedfrom one place to another after being obliged to desert their homes,knowing not whither to turn in order to save themselves from thedevouring flames and the tottering churches and dwellings. The king andthe Duke of York worked with the firemen, commanding, encouraging,and rewarding them; and it was the presence of mind of the latter thatstopped the fire at last, by blowing up several houses. This precautionsaved the old Temple Church, the Tower, and Westminster Abbey. It was inseasons of danger and disaster that King Charles II. always appeared tothe greatest advantage, by displaying a paternal care for the welfare ofhis subjects. After the fire he caused tents and huts to be erected inthe vicinity of London for those who were left homeless, and providedthem with food and fuel. He was, besides, remarkably lenient to thosewho could not pay taxes, because of the poverty occasioned by theplague, though he was thereby deprived of the means to pay his seamen,and obliged to order the ships to lay-by.
If Charles had been as faithful to his wife as he was to his subjectsshe would have been a very happy woman; but about this time he wasimitating Henry VIII. by contemplating a divorce, because he had fallenin love with Frances Stuart, a maid-of-honor, and one of the mostbeautiful women of her day. This was a cause of great anxiety to thequeen, but fortunately not for a long time, because her rival marriedthe Duke of Richmond and went to Denmark to live. That put an end to thedivorce question; but Lord Clarendon brought down the king's vengeanceon his head by favoring Frances Stuart's marriage, and even using hisefforts to bring it about. Charles never forgave his chancellor for thatoffence.
[A.D. 1667.] Shortly after this marriage there was a masked ball atcourt, at which the king and queen danced together. On St. George's DayCharles celebrated the festival of the Garter with all the ceremoniesas they were originally observed when that order was founded. Offeringswere made at the altar by the sovereign and his knights, after whichthey partook of a feast at the Palace of Whitehall. The king sat at atable on a dais alone, and part of the time the queen stood at his lefthand as a spectator. The knights sat at a table ranged the whole lengthof the room to the right of the king, and at the middle of the feastthey all arose and drank his health, whereupon the trumpets soundedand the Tower guns were fired. At the conclusion of the feast all theprovisions that were left over were distributed among the crowd,that always assembled at the end of the hall, near the door, on suchoccasions. It was the custom in olden times, even to the end of theStuart dynasty, for the kings and queens of England to dine in public;and any well-behaved, decent-looking person was free to take hisstand in the dining-room to watch the proceedings. Charles II. was sogood-natured that he would often hand a taste of some delicacy to one ofthe spectators on such an occasion, and won many hearts by his graciousmanners. He would converse freely, too, with those who happened to standnear enough. A well-known wit told him one day while he was dining "thatmatters were in a bad state, but there was a way to mend all." The kinglooked at him inquiringly, and he continued: "There is an honest, ableman I could name, that if your majesty would employ and command to seethings well-executed, all things would soon be mended, and that is oneCharles Stuart, who now spends his time as if he had no employment; butif you would give him employment, he were the fittest man in the worldto perform it." After Lord Clarendon fell into disfavor with theking, he was replaced by Buckingham, a very bad, witty man, who hadgreat influence with Charles. He was an enemy to Catharine, and proposedto his sovereign several plans for ridding himself of her; but theywere all too absurd and too revolting for even Charles II. to consider,unprincipled as he was.
[[A.D. 1668.]] Seven years had elapsed since the marriage of Catharineof Braganza, and still the promised half of her marriage-portion hadnot been paid. Civil wars in Portugal succeeded the death of thequeen-regent and exhausted the treasury. At last news arrived in Englandthat the king had been deposed, and his younger brother, Don Pedro,placed on the throne instead. Everything connected with her family andher native land interested Queen Catharine very much, and it distressedher to hear of the struggle that had been going on there for so manymonths.
[[A.D. 1669.]] The king sympathized with her and treated her with agreat deal of consideration in her anxiety. She had an opportunityof reciprocating not very long after; for Henrietta, the Duchess ofOrleans, made a short visit at the English court, and died three weeksafter her return to France. She and Catharine then met for the firsttime, and formed a warm attachment for each other; so her death wasa source of real sorrow to the queen. Charles gave vent to the mostpassionate grief when he heard the startling news, for he was warmlyattached to his only sister, who had befriended him during his exile.
After the court took off mourning for the Duchess of Orleans, QueenCatharine indulged her fondness for dancing by giving balls andmasquerades; the latter becoming so much the rage as to resemble in somerespects a carnival.
Separate parties would be formed by the king and queen, withthe ladies and gentlemen of the court; and so disguised as not to berecognized by their most intimate friends, they would go about in searchof adventure. On such occasions they would enter any house where a partywas going on, mingle with the invited guests, and commit some of thewildest pranks imaginable, only taking care that their rank should notbe suspected. Once the queen got separated from her party, and by somemistake was left quite alone. She was a long way from home, and did notdare to announce who she was. In great alarm she stood in the streetuntil a hack came along, when she summoned it and was driven toWhitehall. Whether or no she took the driver into her confidence has notbeen recorded.
During such escapades, of course, both their majesties were subjected toliberties from their subjects, which they bore most good naturedly. Theking, especially, seldom resented even the most caustic sarcasms fromhis courtiers, though he generally returned a spicy repartee.
The Earl of Rochester once wrote upon Charles's chamber door:--
               "Here lies our sovereign lord the king,
                   Whose word no man relies on;
               Who never said a foolish thing,
                   And never did a wise one."
"Very true," returned King Charles, after reading the lines. "My doingsare those of my ministers, but my sayings are my own."
[[A.D. 1671.]] Once when Queen Catharine was at her palace in Suffolk,with her court, she determined to have a little frolic; and forthat purpose took the Duchesses of Richmond and Buckingham into herconfidence. This was her plan: A fair was being held at the neighboringtown of Saffron Walden, and there her majesty meant to go in disguise.So the three ladies dressed themselves like


country girls, in short, red petticoats, intending to mingle withthe crowd, fondly hoping that they would not be recognized. Catharinewas sensible enough to select for her cavalier Sir Bernard Gascoigne, abrave old gentleman, loved and respected by all who knew him; and a warmpersonal friend to the king. Mounted behind this cavalier, on an oldcart-horse, and followed by the other ladies, each riding in the sameprimitive fashion with her escort, the party set out. But they hadcopied their costumes, not from those of the peasants, but from therepresentation of them at the theatres. So as soon as they arrived onthe fair-grounds they were mistaken for a company of strolling players;and supposing that they would soon begin to perform, the rusticsfollowed them in crowds. When the queen entered one of the booths to buy"a pair of yellow stockings for her beau," a man who had seen her at oneof the public state dinners recognized her, and, proud of his superiorknowledge, announced his sovereign's presence at once. The informationspread like wildfire, and the court party returned home, followed by amotley crowd.
The same year the king and queen made a tour through several counties,and were sumptuously entertained. At its conclusion, Catharine remainedquietly at Euston Hall, in Suffolk, with her ladies, while the kingattended the Newmarket races, attended by his lively courtiers.
[[A.D. 1677.]] The marriage of the king's nephew, William, Prince ofOrange, with Princess Mary, eldest daughter of the Duke of York, wascelebrated at Whitehall in November; and as the anniversary of thequeen's birth occurred the same month, there was occasion for doublerejoicing. Catharine had known the young princess almost from the day ofher birth, and felt a warm attachment for the motherless girl.
When the time came for her departure for Holland with her husband,she fell on the queen's breast and burst into tears.
Catharine endeavored to soothe her by recounting her own experience inhaving come to England a perfect stranger, without even having seen theman she was to marry.
But Mary thought no sorrow could equal hers; and replied, betweenher sobs: "Yes; but, madam, you came into England, and I am leavingEngland."
If she could have looked into the aching heart of the woman who wasoffering words of comfort scarcely needed she would have been awed intosilence. Poor Catharine's position at that period was worse than everbefore. The Earl of Shaftesbury, an ambitious, revengeful, dishonorableman, was her avowed enemy, and bent upon her destruction; so he hadinfluenced the king to absent himself from her in the hope that time andseparation would at last induce him to consent to a divorce. He was notsuccessful in this; but he was so in bringing about the popish plot, hisintention being to destroy the queen and rob the Duke of York, whom hehated also, of his right of succession.
We do not intend to give all the details of this wicked plot; but itplayed such an important part of Queen Catharine's life that we will, inas few words as possible, explain the nature of it. We must go back toa year or two after her marriage, for it was then that Catharine madea serious mistake, which caused her name to be connected with this plotnearly fifteen years later. Catharine's anxiety to have the independenceof Portugal acknowledged by the pope was so great that soon after shegot to England she induced her husband to send Richard Bellings, one ofthe gentlemen of her household, on a mission to Rome. The object was topromise his holiness that if he would extend his protection to hernative land she would use her utmost endeavors to advance the Catholiccause in England; adding that her desire to accomplish this had beenthe sole cause of her marriage. Letters of the same purport were sentto several of the cardinals also. Her appeal had the desired effect; butBellings let out the secret, and the vigilant enemies of Queen Catharinemade a note of it, to be used against her when opportunity offered.
[[A.D. 1678.]] Titus Oates and Bedloe were the infamous charactersselected to swear away the lives of a large number of innocent persons.
Oates was the son of a weaver and preacher, and a villain of thedeepest dye. If he had not been so brainless as to swear to a tissueof falsehoods too palpable to gain credence, rivers of blood would havebeen shed, and the disgraceful scenes that attended the St. Bartholomewmassacre in France would have been repeated in England. But when theking questioned him and Bedloe, their statements as to the place andmanner that the queen had used for declaring her intention of poisoninghis majesty were so absurd that they stood self-convicted.
King Charles never for a moment suspected his wife of any attempt on hislife; and he knew, besides, that although the Duke of York, his brother,had become a member of the Catholic church, it had not been through herinstrumentality.
But the public mind was aroused to such a pitch by the daily inventionsof Oates and his adherents that the business of life was interrupted,and the wildest statements were eagerly accepted as indisputable facts.
Catharine was even accused of having caused the murder of Godfrey, acity magistrate, whose body was found on the highway, pierced with hisown sword. It was Shaftesbury who prompted Oates in all he said anddid, though he was wily enough to keep himself in the background. It washe who secured from parliament, for the shameless perjurer, a pensionof twelve hundred pounds a year for the information he had given, inconsequence of which all the Roman Catholic peers were deprived of theirseats in that body.
All this time Queen Catharine was surrounded by spies, ready to pounceupon any action of hers that might be perverted into an appearance ofguilt; but her honesty and simplicity of character spoke so loudly inher favor that there was not a true-hearted man in the realm who was notassured of her entire innocence.
But she was aware of her danger, and expected nothing less than that shewould be brought to the block, as Charles I. had been. She, therefore,sent a messenger, to her brother, Don Pedro, informing him of hersituation, and asking his protection in case her life should be injeopardy. Her adviser was Count Castelmelhor, a noble Portuguese exile,who proved of such service to Queen Catharine that she helped him toretrieve his lost fortune by purchasing a new estate for him, to whichhe gave the name of Santa Catarina, out of compliment to her.
King Charles offered five hundred pounds for the murderer of Godfrey.Tempted by so large a sum, Bedloe, Oates's colleague, and a dischargedconvict, swore that the deed had been done by the queen's popishservants; and that he had been offered two thousand guineas to assist inthe removal of the body, which he saw lying on the queen's back stairs.When cross-examined, this rascal contradicted himself, and described theportion of the palace where he beheld the corpse so inaccurately as toprove conclusively that he had never been in it at all.
The members of the house of commons were paralyzed withastonishment at their next session, when Oates advanced to the bar, and,raising his voice, exclaimed: "I, Titus Oates, accuse Catharine, Queenof England, of high treason."

His partners in villany, taking advantage of those present, who wereso surprised as to remain speechless, voted an address to the king,requesting the removal of his wife to the Tower. But the lords refusedto admit the testimony of such men as Oates and Bedloe, so appointeda committee to investigate the charges brought against her majesty.Shaftesbury protested, but he was overruled.
King Charles was perfectly conscious of a conspiracy against his wife,and vowed that he would not suffer her to be wronged. His indignationwas so great that he began to treat her with such affection and respectas she had not known for many a day at his hands. He had Oates arrested,but was obliged to release him; and then the man went beyond allbounds. Five Catholic lords were sent to the Tower on account of hisaccusations against them; thirty thousand Catholics were driven out ofLondon from terror, and arrests and executions were of daily occurrence.
[[A.D. 1679.]] Some of the queen's servants were of the number, much toher horror and grief, and the Duke of York frequently assured her thathis turn and hers would come next. Although the king feared the popularrage, he absolutely refused to permit the queen to stand a trial whenhis privy-council proposed it, because he knew it would not be a fairone. Shortly after he went to Newmarket with the queen, and while theywere there Bedloe died. In his last confession he swore that so far ashe knew both the queen and the Duke of York were innocent of any attempton the king's life, or of any murder whatever, and that all the evidencehe had formerly given was false.
[[A.D. 1680.]] The popish plot closed with the execution of LordStafford, a tragedy that ought not to have taken place. But we haveone more circumstance to relate, an anti-climax to the popish plot. OneFitzharris appeared upon the scene, and accused the queen and the Dukeof York of a design to poison the king.
Charles immediately summoned parliament to meet at Oxford, March 21.Escorted by a troop of horse-guards, and accompanied by the queen, heproceeded to the appointed place, where the royal couple were greetedwith enthusiasm by the students of the university, who made addressesof welcome, while the authorities prepared a feast and other rejoicings.Shaftesbury arrived with his party and a crowd of armed retainers, whowore hatbands with the inscription, "No popery! No slavery!"
King Charles's first parliament sat for eighteen years, and was calledthe long parliament; this one was to sit for six days, and oughttherefore to have been styled the short parliament. Fitzharris was amember of the church of Rome, and great results were anticipated fromhis statements. The house of commons wanted the trial managed one way,the lords another, and a furious dispute arose. So, withoutmentioning his intention to a soul, the king had himself carried in aclosely-curtained sedan chair to the house. He wore his robes of stateand carried his crown concealed on his lap. He entered the house oflords unannounced, took his seat on the throne, placed the crown uponhis head, and bade the usher summon the commons. The moment they enteredhe told them "that proceedings which began so ill could not endin good," and commanded the lord chancellor to declare parliamentdissolved. Before they had time to recover from their astonishment, theking and queen were on the road to Windsor, escorted by their guard.
If Charles had displayed the same determination and courage at thebeginning of the popish plot, how much innocent blood might have beenspared, and what misery prevented! Fitzharris was tried for treason andexecuted.
[[A.D. 1683.]] About three years after the popish plot another wasformed by some minor conspirators, their object being to kill both theking and the Duke of York, his brother; but Providence interposed toprevent such a foul murder before the plans of the conspirators had beencompleted. The Duke of Monmouth revealed the plot, which brought severalprominent men to the block.
[[A.D. 1684.]] It was so cold the following winter that the Thames wasfrozen over, and an ox was roasted whole in a fire built on the ice.This was done while a fair was being held; the booths for the purposewere stationed along the banks of the river, and there was a greatdeal of merrymaking, though the winter was a hard one for poor people,because provisions were so high and fuel so scarce. 

The queen's birthday that year was celebrated with great splendor, andthere was the finest display of fireworks in front of the palace everseen in England. The same night there was a grand ball, at which all thecourt ladies and gentlemen danced in costumes that were unusually richand elegant.
[[A.D. 1685.]] This was the last entertainment that King Charlesever attended, for on the second of February of the following year hehad an attack' of apoplexy that resulted in death four days later. Hewas bled until he was almost exhausted, and then his bedroom wasso crowded with people, night and day, that he had little chance ofrecovery. Most of the time it contained five bishops, twenty-five lords,the councillors, foreign ambassadors, doctors, and attendants, besidesthe queen, and the Duke and Duchess of York.
The queen was overcome with grief, and once when the dying man sent forher she was too convulsed to attend, but sent a messenger to beg hispardon if ever she had offended him. "Alas, poor lady!" exclaimedCharles, "she begs my pardon! I beg hers with all my heart." After thatshe took her place at his bedside and stayed with him to the end.
Both the Duke of York and Catharine were exceedingly anxious that theking should receive the last rites of the Catholic church, because theyknew it was what he would prefer if he were conscious of his danger, butthey dared not propose it, as it was contrary to the laws of Englandfor any one to influence another in that direction. At last the Frenchambassador consulted the Duke of York on the subject, and impressed uponhim the necessity of having extreme unction administered before it wastoo late.
Returning to his brother's room, the duke knelt by the bed and askedin a low voice: "Sir, will you receive the sacrament of the Catholicchurch?"
"Ah! I would give anything in the world to have a priest," faintlyreplied the dying monarch. "I will bring you one," returned the duke."For God's sake, brother, do!" exclaimed the king. Then he added: "Butwill you not expose yourself to danger by doing it?" "Sir, thoughit cost me my life, I will bring you one," said the duke.
Father Huddleston was selected, because for many reasons he was theleast objectionable of the Catholic priests in England, and had for manyyears been a personal friend to the king, whose life he had once saved.He arrived between seven and eight o'clock on the evening of the fifth.Now it became necessary to clear the sick-room of those who would haveobjected to the performance of the Catholic rites; the Duke of Yorkmanaged the difficult matter in this way:--
Kneeling down by his dying brother he whispered "that all things wereready and Father Huddleston in attendance, and asked if he would seehim?"
"Yes, with all my heart!" eagerly replied Charles, in a loud voice.
Turning to the room-full of people, the duke said:
"Gentlemen, his majesty wishes every one to withdraw but the Earls ofBath and Feversham."
Then Father Huddleston, disguised in a wig and cassock, such as theclergy of the Church of England always wore, was led up a secretstaircase, through the queen's apartments, into the king's room.
As he entered the alcove in which stood the king's bed, the dukepresented him, saying: "Sir, I bring you a man who once saved your life;he now comes to save your soul."
Charles replied, in a weak voice, "He is welcome."
At the conclusion of the Romish rites the company were readmitted; andKean, an English minister, prayed with the king.
During the night the dying man spoke affectionately to his brother, andasked forgiveness of his wife. At six in the morning he asked the time,and said: "Draw the cur-


tain, and open the window, that I may behold the light of the sunfor the last time."
Before noon Charles II. expired, in the fifty-fourth year of his age.He was buried on the fourteenth of February, at Westminster Abbey, afterlying in state for a week. He was deeply mourned by his subjects; forno sovereign ever had the attributes of popularity more fully developedthan King Charles II.
Queen Catharine's grief on account of the death of her husband wasgreat. The new king treated her with kindness and consideration. She waspermitted to retain her rooms at Whitehall as long as she chose; buton the eighth of April, after two months of mourning, she removed toSomerset House, where she established her court as queen-dowager.
Catharine no longer danced or took part in gayety of any kind; butshe indulged her love for music by giving regular concerts at SomersetHouse.
[[A.D. 1688-9.]] Several times she made up her mind to return to hernative land, but fortunately did not do so; for if she had shewould have lost every penny of her dower as queen-dowager during theRevolution, which terminated in the exile of James II. and his family,and the placing of the Prince of Orange on the throne of England.She wisely weathered the storm, although she was subjected to manymortifications and insults in consequence.
After William III. was on the throne he had occasion to go to Ireland;so before departing he sent Lord Nottingham to tell Catharine that hehad heard of certain meetings, held at Somerset House, for the purposeof denouncing his government; he therefore desired her to remove eitherto Windsor or Audley End.
Astonished at such a message, but not in the least alarmed, she replied:"That it was her desire to quit his territory for Portugal, if hewould but have appointed ships for her voyage; but, as it was, she didnot intend to go out of her own house."
The next day William sent profuse apologies, and bade the queen "not tothink of removing."
[[A.D. 1692.]] A few months later the royal widow gave notice of herintention to leave England; but it was not until the spring of 1692that she was able to carry it into effect. She had then been livingin retirement for several years, and had saved a large sum of money tocarry back to Portugal.
Several English ladies of rank attended her; and as soon as Louis XIV.heard of her arrival in France he sent an escort to conduct her throughhis dominion. But she was so anxious to get to her native land that shewould not accept the invitation he extended her to visit his court.
Queen Catharine was met on the Spanish border by a train of Portuguesenobles of the highest rank; and on her arrival at Lisbon she was greetedwith the most enthusiastic welcome.
Don Pedro met her on the road in grand state. He descended from hiscarriage and went to the door of hers; then, after an affectionateembrace, the queen alighted, entered her brother's coach, and wasconducted in procession to one of the country palaces that had beenprepared for her. The Queen of Portugal, Donna Maria Sophia, receivedher at the head of the grand staircase, and after the observance of allthe regular court ceremonies, went home with her husband, to enable thetired traveller to rest.
[A.D. 1704.] When Don Pedro was obliged some years later, for the sakeof policy, to withdraw from the cares of government, he left the chargeof his dominions entirely his sister Catharine, and when hewas dangerously ill the following year, she was solemnly constitutedQueen-regent of Portugal.
[[A.D. 1705.]] The country was then engaged in a war with the King ofSpain, and "Donna Catharine" conducted the campaign with such skill thather popularity increased tenfold.
A sudden attack of colic [Likely Appendicitis. DW] put an end to herexistence the very last day of the year that had been such a brilliantsuccess to her. The king, her brother, hastened to her as soon as heheard of her illness, but arrived only an hour before she expired.
Queen Catharine left liberal legacies to all her relations, though DonPedro was her heir. The poor were not forgotten, and various monasterieswere provided for by her will. She had chosen the royal monastery ofBelem for the place of her interment, and the funeral ceremony wasperformed with all the grandeur and solemnity that would have beenobserved if Catharine of Braganza had been a reigning sovereign. Herbier was carried by eight noblemen of the very highest rank to thelitter, on which it was conveyed to Belem, attended by all her retinue,and by the whole court of the king, her brother.
As a testimony of respect all public buildings, business-houses, andplaces of amusement were closed for a week, and the court wore mourningfor a year.
Catharine was greatly lamented in Portugal, where even to the presentday her name is mentioned with the utmost veneration. She outlivedCharles II. twenty-one years, and was devoted to his memory until shedied. 



CHAPTER IX. MARY BEATRICE OF MODENA, QUEEN-CONSORT OF JAMES II.
(A.D. 1659-1718.)
|The city of Modena in Italy was the birthplace of some of the greatestpoets and painters of that land of artists, and it was there that theheroine of this narrative was born. Her father, the Duke of Modena, wasa learned man, and would probably have made his mark in the world if hehad lived long enough; but he died young, and left his Duchess Laura torule in his stead.
This lady had two little children, a boy, who later became FrancisII. of Modena, and Mary Beatrice. Prince Rinaldo d'Esté, afterwards acardinal, was appointed guardian of the children, and assisted theirmother in educating them.
Francisco, as the boy was called during his minority, was two yearsyounger than his sister, consequently when his father died the duchessruled the state many years before he was fit to do so.
She was rather a stern mother,--her fear, lest overindulgence mightspoil her little ones, making her notice trifling faults that in someinstances it would have been wiser to have overlooked. She insisted uponhard study several hours every day, and never allowed any of the fastsimposed by the church to be omitted, though both the children weredelicate. When Mary Beatrice was frightened at seeing a chimney-sweepdescend into her nursery through the fireplace, her mother made the manremain until she had shown the child who he was, and explained


Why he looked so black and dirty. On one occasion the attentionof the duchess-regent was drawn to the fact that hard study was wearingupon the young duke's health. "Better that I should have no son, than ason without wit and merit," replied the parent.
[[A.D. 1666.]] Mary's first real sorrow was when her governess, of whomshe was very fond, entered a convent, and she grieved so sorely thatshe was sent to the same institution to finish her education. There shespent several happy years; for the discipline was much less rigid thanit had been at the palace, and she had the companionship of girls of herown age. The books that were placed in her hands, and the influence bywhich Mary was surrounded at the convent, filled her youthful mind withmystic romance, and gave her a desire to imitate the female saints whoselives had been devoted to the service of God. Besides, she had an auntin the convent, scarcely fifteen years older than herself, who waspreparing to take the veil, and Mary Beatrice loved her so much that shedesired to follow her example. But she was not to lead a life of peaceand repose: a different destiny awaited her, as we shall see.
James, Duke of York, was brother to Charles II., and the second sonof Henrietta Maria and Charles I. of Great Britain. He was a giftedengineer, and for many years occupied the post of Lord Admiral ofEngland, when he established colonies in different parts of the world,and advanced trade with foreign countries. After being a prisoner in hisnative land for many months, during the struggles of his father's reign,the duke made his escape to Holland and shared his brother's exile,never returning to England until the time of the restoration. While hismother was living in France he entered the army of that country asa volunteer, and fought so valiantly for the royalist cause that theFrench commander said: "If any man in the world was born withoutfear it was the Duke of York."
There is a portrait of this prince in the royal gallery at Versailles,painted when he was about twenty-two years old, which represents him asone of the handsomest men of his time. His brown hair is brushed fromhis brow and falls in ringlets at the back; his eyes are large, dark,and expressive, lips full and red, complexion warm and healthful. Thispicture was painted before he had the small-pox, for that dreadfuldisease made a sad alteration in his appearance later in life.
The Duke of York distinguished himself on the battlefields of Spainafter he was driven from France, where he had served in four campaigns,and was offered a very high position. He would not accept, because hewas always expecting affairs to take such a shape in his native land asto permit his return..
[[A.D. 1660.]] Shortly after that important change did occur,--therestoration of Charles II.,--the duke fell in love with Anne Hyde,daughter of Clarendon, and married her in spite of a great deal ofopposition on all sides.
[[A.D. 1667.]] By the time he was thirty-four years of age his wife andseveral of his children were dead. Two daughters were spared, who causedtheir father much bitter sorrow, as we shall see in the course of thisbiography. About seven years after the death of his wife the Duke ofYork fell in love with a lady of humble birth; but his brother, theking, put a stop to any thought of marriage with her, and sent the Earlof Peterborough to visit the different princesses of Europe and selectfor James a wife whose station in life would be equal to his own.
[[A.D. 1673.]] The ambassador's choice fell on Marv Beatrice of Modena,whom he was enabled to see through the convent grating by the goodoffices of a priest. The duke had secretly charged Peterborough tobe very careful in his selection, and to give him a faithful descriptionof the lady he preferred before settling anything.
Now, it must not be supposed that the ambassador made his choice withouta great many annoyances, for he had to visit several courts, and as theobject of his trip was suspected, he was placed in very embarrassingpositions when the particular princess he was considering did notpossess the requirements he deemed indispensable. And even after he haddecided that Mary Beatrice of Modena should have the honor of becomingQueen of England, his trouble was not at an end by any means; forthe young lady had planned a different sort of life for herself, andobjected very decidedly to the lofty position now offered to her.
The Earl of Peterborough intended to proceed very cautiously, and not tomake known his errand until he was quite sure of success. He thereforelodged himself at an inn like an ordinary traveller; but the secondmorning after his arrival a man named Nardi presented himself with aletter from the duchess-regent. The earl's surprise at being so honoredwas increased when he read what the lady wrote. It was, that havingheard the object of his journey to Italy, she deemed it her duty toinform him that her daughter had resolved to become a nun, but addedthat there were other princesses in her family, to one of whom, if theduke, his master, thought fit, he might be permitted to address himself.She sent also a cordial invitation for the ambassador to come to court"where she should deem it an honor to welcome him." The earl was notflattered at the anxiety displayed by the duchess to refuse him herdaughter before he had made his offer, so he pretended that his visithad no special object, but that he was a private traveller, withno desire to interfere with anybody's plans. This was only a littlestratagem on the part of the duchess; for she was dazzled with thethought of her daughter becoming the wife of the heir presumptive tothe throne of England, but thought it best not to appear overanxious.However, she took the precaution to speak to Mary Beatrice on thesubject at a very early stage of the proceedings.
Mary Beatrice was less than fifteen, but she was tall, womanly, and verybeautiful, with hair, eyes and eyebrows black as jet, and a clear olivecomplexion. She read and wrote Latin and French, painted well, and wasan excellent musician, but of history and geography she was thoroughlyignorant. When her mother announced that the Duke of York desired tomarry her, she asked: "Who is the Duke of York?" and upon being toldthat he was brother to the King of England, whom he would succeed tothe crown, she replied: "That she had never heard of such a placeas England, nor of such a person as the Duke of York." The duchessexplained more fully, and casually mentioned that the duke was in hisfortieth year; then Mary Beatrice burst into tears and implored her auntto marry him instead, saying "that as she was thirty years of age shewas more fit to become the wife of a man of forty than she herself was,being only fifteen." No amount of persuasion could reconcile her to thethought of marrying a man twenty-five years her senior, and she declaredher determination to become a nun. So eloquently did she plead her owncause that her uncle and her mother's prime minister were won over, andencouraged the princess in her refusal to marry.
Meanwhile a messenger arrived from England to inform the earl thatthe Marquis of Dangeau had been despatched from France to assist inconcluding the matrimonial alliance between England and Modena, addingthat it was suspected that an aunt was to be substituted for the youngprincess, but that she was quite unsuitable to the Duke of York,therefore no such exchange was to be permitted.
A week later the marquis arrived and had an interview with the duchess.He pointed out to her the advantages of such a powerful ally as England,and assured her that the King of France had requested him to use hisutmost influence to forward the marriage. His eloquence prevailed withthe duchess, the court, and council; but the prime minister, FatherGarimbert, remained firm, and continued to espouse the side of the youngprincess.
The duchess then sent for the Earl of Peterborough, and informed him ofthe change in her determination. The next consideration was, to obtaina dispensation from the pope, because the Duke of York had not openlyavowed himself a Catholic. The Abbé Dangeau, brother to the marquis, wassent to Rome for that purpose, and while he was gone the duchess sentfor the Earl of Peterborough, and after making profuse apologies,explained why she had regarded the proposed alliance with so muchdisfavor at first, her principal reason being the desire of the princessto enter a convent. The earl expressed a wish to see Mary Beatrice thatevening, and was conducted to the palace at the appointed hour for thatpurpose.
He approached the young girl with great formality, and told her that hemust ask her pardon for desiring her to leave her peaceful retreat; butas soon as he saw her portrait he knew that she was the woman, of allothers, to make his prince happy, and that since he had seen her he wasmore convinced of it than before. She answered crossly, "that she wasobliged to the King of England and the Duke of York for their goodopinion of her, but she had vowed herself for another sort of life thanmarriage;" then with tears in her eyes she desired his excellency, "ifhe had any influence with his master, to oblige her by endeavoringto avert any further persecutions of a maid who did not wish to marry."She added: "That there were other princesses in Italy, even in her ownfamily, who would not be unworthy of so great an honor, and who deservedit much better than she did."
She referred to her aunt, but the earl pretended not to understand, andcontinued to urge his suit. Mary Beatrice spoke her mind as a petulantgirl of fifteen is apt to do, and then left the room with her mother.
The ambassador complained of her behavior to one of the ministers, whotold him that the ladies of Italy had no will but that of their friends,therefore he need give himself no concern about the matter. Actingupon this hint, the earl reminded the minister that everything must besettled before the next meeting of parliament, because they would objectto the marriage of the duke with a Catholic princess.
The dispensation had been refused at Rome, but in spite of that and ofthe tears and lamentations of Mary Beatrice the marriage treaty was sooncompleted. The Bishop of Modena refused to perform the ceremony; butWhite, a poor English minister, who had no fear of excommunication,undertook it.
The marriage portion amounted to eighty thousand pounds, to be paidat different periods, part of it being furnished by Louis IV., who hadalways treated Mary Beatrice as his adopted daughter.
[[A.D. 1674.]] The ceremony was performed on the thirtieth of September,the Earl of Peterborough, who acted as proxy for the Duke of York,placing a valuable diamond ring on the bride's finger. Afterwards therewas a grand banquet, and the earl sat under a canopy at the head of thetable with the bride, now called her royal highness the Duchess of York.In the evening there was


dancing, and everybody seemed happy excepting the bride, whoseheart was very heavy at the thought of so soon leaving the home andcompanions of her childhood. She had struggled with all her mightagainst destiny, and had made the most determined efforts to preserveher freedom, all of no avail. She had been led to the altar like a lambto the sacrifice, and her lips had pronounced the vows from which hersoul had shrunken.
When the news reached the Duke of York that the ceremony had beenperformed, he was talking to a circle of friends in the drawing-room."Then I am a married man!" he exclaimed, and that night sent word to hisdaughter, Mary "that he had provided a playfellow for her."
The duke had given his ambassador instructions to bring his bride toEngland with as little parade and as few foreign attendants as possible;but she screamed and cried in such a way when preparations for herjourney were being made that her mother was obliged to promise toaccompany her to England, and her brother to go part of the way. ThreeItalian ladies of the highest rank were permitted among her bed-chamberappointments. They were Madame Molza, Madame Montecuculi, and herdaughter, Anna, a young girl of seventeen. A lady named Turenie, who hadbeen governess to the princess from her infancy, was added to thelist also. These four ladies proved devoted friends, and followed MaryBeatrice throughout her life.
It had been a trial for the young Duchess of York to bid farewell to hernative place; but when, two days later, she had to part with the brotherwho shared her joys and sympathized with her sorrows almost fromher cradle, her burden of grief seemed greater than she could bear.Forgetting the dignity that her station demanded, or the presence of theformidable array of English and Italian nobles, she remembered only thatshe was losing, perhaps forever, the little brother whom she lovedbetter than any one in the world. She pressed him to her heart again andagain, and burst into an agony of tears when the youthful prince was ledaway. It was a consolation, at least, that her mother was to continuewith her, and her mind was soon diverted by the welcome she received atthe hands of the several princes of Italy, through whose dominions shepassed with her attendants.
On arriving at the French border the bridal train was met by officers ofLouis XIV., who defrayed all the expenses, and conducted them to Paris.They were lodged at the Arsenal, and magnificently entertained.
All that remains of this building shows what a splendid one it musthave been, but the storms of revolution have passed over it and left italmost in ruins.
The Earl of Peterborough was anxious to get to England with his chargeas quickly as possible, but Mary Beatrice became so ill that shewas unfit to travel for several weeks. Her disease was a low fever,occasioned by the mental anxiety she had endured for so many weeks.After her recovery the young duchess visited Versailles, where she wasreceived with the highest consideration, and entertained with allthe splendor of that court. It was a dreadful ordeal for so young andinexperienced a girl to know just what degree of attention to accordeach person without too much condescension on her own part, butparticularly so for one who had no taste for the formalities of royalty,and greatly preferred the seclusion of a cloister. But Mary Beatriceexcited admiration for her beauty and charming manners, of which theking showed his appreciation by making her some costly presents. Shehad already received jewels valued at twenty thousand pounds from herunknown husband, which she wore on state occasions while in France.


Meanwhile a strong party in England had leagued itself, under theleadership of the Earl of Shaftesbury, for the purpose of destroying theDuke of York, and of getting the reins of the government in their ownhands. This was no easy matter, because his services in his country'scause, his energy, and his high sense of honor, had rendered him one ofthe most popular of princes; but the party opposed to him were ready toresort to any measures, no matter how vile, to gain their end.
Knowing this, the duke had managed his marriage with the utmost secrecyand despatch, because the strongest avowed point of opposition was hisadherence to Catholicism, which his alliance with a Catholic princesswould naturally strengthen. So when parliament met, on the twentiethof October, they were perfectly astonished and highly indignant to hearfrom the king's lips that the duke was already married to the Princessof Modena, who was even then on her way to England. The infuriatedCommons petitioned their sovereign "to appoint a day of general fasting,that God might avert the dangers with which the nation was threatened."
Charles told them that they might fast as much as they pleased, thoughhe knew that by so doing they merely desired to show their contempt forwhat they called the "popish marriage," though the pope had positivelywithheld his consent to it. The members of the king's own cabinet becamealarmed at the threatened storm, and urged his majesty either to forbidthe princess to leave Paris or to dismiss his brother from court,and insist upon his leading the life of a country gentleman. Charlesindignantly refused both propositions.
The day after parliament met Mary Beatrice landed at Dover, where herhusband awaited her on the beach, and all the citizens had collectedto get a sight of her. The duke received her in his arms, and wascharmed with her at the outset, as well he might have been; but she,poor child, was not so favorably impressed with a man old enough to beher father, and showed her aversion plainly. This did not discourage thegroom, who treated her with courtly attention, feeling convinced that heshould win her heart in time.
In the presence of his suite and the bride's, besides a large number ofDover people, the Duke of York was married to Mary Beatrice accordingto the church of England rites, and the little ruby ring placed on herfinger that day was more highly valued to the end of her life than anyjewel the princess possessed.
The second day after the marriage the bride and groom, attended by theDuchess of Modena, and her brother-inlaw, the Prince Rinaldo d'Esté,besides the members of their court, set out for London. King Charleswent down the river with his court, in the royal barges, to meet thebridal suite, and received his new sister-in-law with every mark ofaffection; then he conducted the party to Whitehall, where his queenvied with him in her acts of loving attention to the bride.
Even her enemies were for the time being disarmed when they gazed on thelovely, innocent countenance of the young bride; and at King Charles'scourt she was much admired and esteemed.
The Duke and Duchess of York established themselves at St. James'sPalace, where all the foreign ambassadors called to congratulate them,and where they held their courtly receptions as regularly as the kingand queen did theirs at Whitehall, though on different days. KingCharles was devoted to his brother, and soon became warmly attachedto his wife, but a little coolness was early established between QueenCatharine and the Duchess of York in
this way: It had been stipulated in the marriage treaty that theduchess was to have the use of the Catholic chapel at St. James's whichhad been fitted up by the queen-mother, Henrietta, for herself and herhousehold. But King Charles, knowing how unpopular any display ofher religion at that time would make his brother's wife, influencedCatharine to claim it as one of her chapels, and had a private apartmentin the palace fitted up for the devotions of the young duchess and hersuite. This was a piece of friendship on the part of the king that wasnot appreciated by his sister-in-law, who laid the blame on the queen,with whom she felt quite offended.
At the end of the year the Duchess of Modena was called home by someintrigues that had been begun during her absence; but although MaryBeatrice was sorry to part with her, she had by that time begun to loveher husband so much that the parting was not so great a trial as itwould otherwise have been, and the love that was implanted in her heartdeveloped into a devotion that lasted to the day of her death.
The first years of her married life were passed by the young duchessin a succession of gayeties. She was often annoyed because her husbandtreated her like a child, but as she was little older than his daughterthis is not surprising. In later years circumstances developed the forceof her character, and won the respect and admiration that she trulymerited.
She had the good sense to study English, and soon became a perfectmistress of the language.
[[A..D. 1675.]] Mary Beatrice had a little daughter born about a yearafter her marriage. This was a great pleasure, but it was soon marredby the duke's refusal to have the baby baptized a Catholic. He did notobject himself, but explained to his wife that their children belongedto the nation and would be taken from them if not brought upaccording to the established church, adding that is was besides theking's pleasure, to which they must submit. The youthful mother appearedto yield, but sent for her confessor, Father Gallis, and had the childbaptized on her own bed according to the rites of the church of Rome.
When the king came a day or two later to make arrangements with her andthe duke for the christening of their child, Mary Beatrice told himthat "her daughter was already baptized." Without paying the slightestattention to this assertion, his majesty ordered the little princess tobe borne to the royal chapel, where she was christened by a Protestantbishop, her half-sisters, Mary and Anne, acting as sponsors. The babywas named Catharine Laura after the queen and the Duchess of Modena,and the Catholic baptism was kept a profound secret, though it must havebeen a subject of annoyance to the king.
A fortnight later some very severe laws were made against the Catholics.One of them forbade any British subject from officiating as a Romishpriest, either in the queen's chapel or elsewhere; another prohibitedany adherent of the Catholic, church to set foot in Whitehall or St.James's Palace, the penalty for such an offence being imprisonment. Thislaw of course kept the Duchess of York and the Catholic ladies of herhousehold from the king's palace, but the young mother was so wrapt upin her baby that she was indifferent to almost anything besides. She washappy with her husband also, and lived on terms of close friendship withher step-daughters, who never accused her of the slightest unkindnessto them, even in later years, when they would have been pleased to bringany unfavorable accusation against her. But the young mother was soonto be deprived of the infant she loved so fondly, for it died of aconvulsion before it was ten months old.
This was, of course, a great sorrow to Mary Beatrice, but she wasnot permitted to indulge it very long, for before the close of the yearshe had to attend a feast given by the lord mayor, and a ball at her ownpalace.
[[A.D. 1676.]] Another princess was born the next year, and this timethere was no secret baptism. That ceremony was performed by Dr. North,Master of Trinity College, and the child was named Isabella. She livedto the age of five years.
[[A.D. 1677 ]] The following year the marriage between the Princess Maryand the Prince of Orange was solemnized; and it was this union thatproved so disastrous to the fortunes of the Duchess of York, herhusband, her children.
There was much rejoicing in the household of the Duke when a littleprince made his appearance. He was christened with great pomp by theBishop of Durham, and no less a person than the king himself, assistedby the Prince of Orange, acted as sponsor. Charles bestowed his own nameon his nephew, and created him Duke of Cambridge. The little fellow diedthe following month, and was interred, as his sister had been, in thevault of Mary Queen of Scots, at Westminster Abbey.
The duke grieved more for the death of this boy than he had for any ofhis children. The Prince of Orange wrote a letter of condolence; but, ashe was then plotting against his royal father-in-law, and as the deathof the little prince opened the way to the throne for his wife, it isnot probable that he was sincere in his expressions of sympathy. ButMary Beatrice was ignorant of this, and when she heard that the Princessof Orange was ill she planned a visit to her, which, after obtainingthe king's consent, she undertook, in company with Princess Anne andher lord chamberlain, the Earl of Ossory. As it was her desire toascertain the true state of Princess Mary's health, and to afford hercomfort, the duchess travelled incognito, and sent a man on before tohire for her a small house not far from the palace. This was doneto secure free intercourse among the three ladies without any of theformality required by court etiquette.
[[A.D. 1678.]] Although the visit was a flying one, the duchess founda storm gathering around her husband on her return which soon compelledhim to give up his seat among the state councillors. His friends advisedhim to retire to the continent with his family; but his proud spiritrevolted from any move that would have the appearance of guilt orcowardice. The king urged him to baffle his enemies by returning tothe church of England, but he refused to act in opposition to hisconscience. Then for the sake of peace, which the "merry monarch" wouldhave purchased at any cost, Charles advised his brother to go abroadbefore the next session of parliament. James consented, providing theking would command it in writing, but he scorned the idea of runningaway. The order was given in the form of an affectionate letter, and onthe fourth of March the Duke and Duchess of York embarked for Holland.They were not permitted to take their little daughter Isabella to sharetheir exile, which was a great deprivation to both parents.
[[A.D. 1679.]] The king called on the day of their departure to bidfarewell, and was much affected at parting with the brother whom heloved so well. The weather was very stormy, and wiping the tears fromhis eyes Charles said: "The wind is contrary; you cannot go on board atpresent."
Mary Beatrice, who considered that her husband was being sacrificed tosecure his brother's peace of mind, replied with spirit, "What, sir, areyou grieved?--you who


send us into exile! Of course we must go, since you have ordainedit." She regretted this speech later, because she knew that Charles hadonly yielded to the clamor of her enemies.
The duke and his wife arrived at the Hague a week later, and werereceived by the Prince of Orange with every demonstration of respect.Later they removed to Brussels, where they occupied the house CharlesII. had lived in before the restoration.
In July the Duchess of Modena joined her daughter, from whom she hadbeen separated for five years, and the two ladies were rejoiced to meetagain. But the Duke and Duchess of York could not rest contented solong as their children were away from them, so they wrote to the kingentreating him to send them to. Brussels. He consented, and PrincessAnne, with the infant Princess Isabella, left England on the nineteenthof August. They had not been with their parents many days when amessenger, sent by the Earl of Sunderland, arrived in Brussels to informthe duke of the king's serious illness. James set out at once tovisit his brother without mentioning his intention to any one but MaryBeatrice, and travelled so privately and so quickly that his presence inEngland was not suspected until he presented himself at Windsor at seveno'clock in the morning. Charles was so much better that he was up andpartly dressed. Fearing that it might injure his brother if it wereknown that he had sent for him, the Duke of York knelt and beggedhis majesty's pardon for coming before he was recalled. Then all thecourtiers flocked around the traveller and paid their compliments, forJames was really a favorite, and his presence always commanded respect.The king was so delighted to see him that he declared "nothing shouldpart them again." However, by the end of a fortnight Charles wasconvinced that his brother could no longer remain with him insafety, but he gave permission for him to remove his family fromBrussels to Scotland. Then the duke went back to the continent, and wasmaking a farewell visit to the Prince and Princess of Orange, in companywith his wife, his children, and the Duchess of Modena, when a messagearrived from King Charles recalling them all, but directing the duke toembark for the Downs and remain there till further orders. Everybodywas delighted but the Prince of Orange, who had his own reasons forobjecting to the duke's return; however, he had no voice in the matterat that time. Two days later Mary Beatrice bade farewell to her mother,who had passed two months with her, and embarked with her familyfor England. The voyage was very stormy, and the duchess sufferedexcessively from seasickness. Party excitement ran so high, and theking's power was so diminished, that by the time the duke arrived at theDowns a messenger informed him that the king had changed his mind abouthis coming to London, and that two frigates were in readiness to conveyhim and his family to Leith, in Scotland, where the Duke of Lauderdalehad been ordered to make arrangements for their reception.
The duchess was too ill to proceed further by sea, and her husband didnot dare to take her ashore without a written permission from the king,so there she lay tossing about in the Downs while an express was sentto London. Charles was sorry to hear of her miserable condition, andordered his brother to bring her to St. James's Palace forthwith. Theywere delighted to find themselves safe on _terra firma_ after all theyhad suffered; but they were not yet at their journey's end, for the verynight of their arrival the king assured his brother that he had no powerto protect him if he persisted in remaining in England.
A week later two of his friends informed the duke that his majestydesired him to withdraw to Scotland for a short period, but that hiswife and children might remain under his care at St. James's Palace. ButMary Beatrice was too devoted a wife to permit her husband to go intoexile alone; so, although it necessitated separation from her littledaughter and a weary journey over roads that were almost impassable, shewent with him.
Every action of the duke's had been so perverted that his great navalvictories were attributed to cowardice, and every other, no matterhow great a benefit it had proved to the nation, to a desire for theadvancement of popery. This being the case, no marks of favor were shownhim as he advanced towards the North, and the discourtesy of the townsthat thirteen years before had lavished attentions on him pained himexcessively.
No sooner did the royal couple reach the Scottish border than everythingwas changed, and they were met with every mark of affection and respect.Three miles from Berwick the Scotch guards, under the Marquis ofMontrose, were drawn up to welcome them, and a little further on twothousand gentlemen on horseback awaited them. The duke alighted from hiscarriage to receive the compliments of the lord chancellor, who headedthe procession; then several of the nobles kissed his hand, and paid thesame respect to the duchess, who sat in her coach. With this numerousescort their royal, highnesses were attended to the house of Lauderdaleat Lethington, where, with their whole retinue, they were splendidlyentertained until they made their public entry into Edinburgh.
The people of Scotland were so pleased to have the royal familyrepresented in their country that they were unwilling to believe any ofthe calumnies against the duke, and looked forward to great prosperityfrom the establishment of a court among them. But James desired tolive as privately as possible to avoid creating jealousy among hisenemies in England.
The Countesses of Peterborough and Roscommon, as several other ladies ofhigh rank who had been with Mary Beatrice since her marriage, attendedher to Scotland. They found Holyrood Abbey, where they made their home,far less luxurious than any former palace they had inhabited; but theduchess made no complaint, and always tried to be cheerful for herhusband's sake.
[[A.D. 1680.]] King Charles had promised his brother that he should notremain long in exile, and he was as good as his word. At the beginningof the new year his majesty entered the council chamber and made theastounding announcement that, as he had derived no benefit from theabsence of his brother, whose lights he knew would be disputed at thenext meeting of parliament, he had ordered him back to London to givehim an opportunity of defending himself.
A great many people were much pleased at this action on the part of theking, and even offered thanks for it; but the powerful party who wereopposed to everything he did, and objected to the Duke of York assuccessor to the crown, were very angry. Their leader, Shaftesbury,and several other members of the house of lords, resigned on the spot.Charles declared that "he accepted their resignation with all hisheart."
The Duke and Duchess of York were rejoiced at their recall to England,but they had gained so many friends in Scotland that their departurefrom there caused a great deal of regret. The lords of the council wrotea letter of thanks to King Charles for the honor he had done them insending the duke to their country, and praised his wise and prudentconduct with much warmth.
The royal couple returned by water, and were saluted by the gunsfrom the ships and tower as they ascended the river to Whitehall,where the king stood at the gate to receive them. They were immediatelyconducted to the queen's apartment, and then to their own, where theyonce more embraced the little daughter whom they had not seen for fourmonths. That night the city was illuminated, and two days later the cityofficers called in a body to congratulate the duke and his wife on theirreturn. A grand supper was given by the lord mayor in honor of the royalbrothers, and the aldermen drank the king's health on their knees, andgrew so loyal as the wine was swallowed that they "wished every onehanged and consigned to perdition who would not serve his majesty withhis life and fortune."
The duke and duchess established their court at St. James's Palace,and gave a series of brilliant balls and feasts that increased theirpopularity considerably. Mary Beatrice was so highly respected that evenher bitterest enemies could find no excuse for mixing her name with thepopish plot, of which we gave an account in the last reign.
But Shaftesbury and his colleagues were not to be baffled; they haddetermined on the ruin of the Duke of York, and never rested until theyhad forced the king to agree to his banishment once more. They wantedthe sea to separate him from England, but Charles compromised in hisusual way, and notified his royal highness that he was to return toScotland. The duke was sorely grieved, for he believed that even hisbrother had turned against him; and that his banishment to Scotlandwould be followed up by something worse. He was the more convinced ofthis when, in order to protect himself against the machinations of hispowerful enemies, he demanded of the king a general pardon, under thegreat seal, for any offence that might be charged against him, and hismajesty refused. He gave as his reason that it would be injuriousto a man of the duke's exalted rank to have such a document drawn up;but James became so enraged that he swore "that if he were pushed toextremity, and saw himself likely to be entirely ruined by his enemies,he would throw himself into the arms of Louis XIV. for protection." Ofcourse such a threat was treasonable, and only to be excused on accountof excessive indignation, for the duke was burning under the sense ofwrong and ingratitude from a king and a country in whose service he hadrisked his life so often. Poor Mary Beatrice was called upon to partwith her little Isabel again, and this separation was the last, for themother never more beheld her only child.
The following beautiful lines by the poet Dryden were written tocommemorate the embarkation of the Duke and Duchess of York, whichoccurred on the eighteenth of October:--
               "Go, injured hero! while propitious gales,
                   Soft as thy consort's breath, inspire thy sails;
               Well may she trust her beauties on a flood
                   Where thy triumphant fleets so oft have rode.
               Safe on thy breast reclined, her rest be deep,
                   Rocked like a Nereid by the waves asleep;
               While happiest dreams her fancy entertain,
                   And to Elysian fields convert the main.
               Go, injured hero! while the shores of Tyre
                   At thy approach, so silent shall admire;
               Who on thy thunder shall their thoughts employ,
                   And greet thy landing with a troubling joy."
After a stormy voyage of a week, the Duke and Duchess of York arrivedon the shores of Scotland, and when they observed the joy manifestedby every class of inhabitants at their return, their sad hearts warmedtowards the nation that were so eager to prove their gratitude andloyalty.
They travelled through Scotland attended by an ever-increasing train ofdevoted followers, and received at every


stopping place the most unbounded hospitality. At Leith they weremet by a grand procession, headed by the Earl of Linlithgow, colonel ofhis majesty's guards, and a regiment of soldiers, besides nobility andgentry on horseback, and a long train of coaches filled with councillorsand noble ladies and gentlemen. As they advanced guns fired, bells rang,bonfires were lighted, and crowds assembled with shouts of welcome. Thecity authorities of Edinburgh met their royal highnesses at the gate ofHoly-rood Palace, and the lord provost on his knees presented the silverkeys of the city to the duke, at the same time offering a welcome in thename of all the citizens.
Holyrood Palace had been repaired and the royal apartments refitted forthe accommodation of the duke and duchess, with their retinue; so theirhome was by no means as comfortless as it had been on their formersojourn there.
The portrait of Mary Beatrice had been painted by Lely just before herdeparture from London; and it was the last work of that great artist,who died before the end of the year.
The duchess was not quite twenty, and at the height of her beauty. Sheis represented with her hair falling around her head in luxuriant curls;her dress is scarlet velvet, embroidered and fringed with gold, cutlow at the neck and filled in with soft cambric, of which material theflowing sleeves are also made. A full rich scarf, of royal blue fringedwith gold and pearls, crosses one shoulder, and falls in graceful foldsover the lap to the ground. The lady is sitting in a garden, and a treein the background is entwined with honey-suckles and roses; her lefthand rests on the neck of a beautiful white Italian greyhound.
A brilliant court was established at Holyrood, and Mary Beatricesucceeded in winning all hearts by her kind and gracious manners.Her religion was unpopular, but she intruded it upon no one, and herconduct was admirable.
Behind the Abbey of Holyrood there was along avenue shaded with statelyoaks, where James was in the habit of taking his daily exercise. Thegreen strip at the foot of the hill is called "the duke's walk" to thisvery day, though all the beautiful trees have been removed.
Mary Beatrice introduced tea-drinking among the Scotch ladies, and thefashion soon became general, for she was so much admired that it becamea pleasure to imitate her. She was loved because she tried to please,and the duke was not behind-hand in this respect. His royal highnessestablished a bond of good fellowship between the nobles and themechanics which added greatly to his popularity. It was done in thisway: Tennis and golf, both games played with clubs and balls, were thefavorite amusements among the gentry of Scotland in those days. The dukeenjoyed them also, and always selected a mechanic or tradesman for hispartner. Of course this example was imitated by the courtiers, and thushigh and low were brought into pleasant contact. His royal highnessgenerally played against the Duke of Lauderdale, who was an excellentgolfer as well as himself. One day they agreed to stake an unusuallylarge sum of money on the game. James called a shoemaker named JohnPaterson to assist him, and after a very hard contest defeated hisopponent. When Lauderdale paid the three or four hundred gold piecesthat he had forfeited, his royal highness handed them to Paterson,saying: "Through your skill I have won the game, and you are, therefore,entitled to the reward of the victory." The bonnie Scot was more pleasedwith the delicate compliment than with the gold. It was many such actsthat endeared James to the people amongst whom his lot was cast. WhenLochiel, a brave Highlander, was presented at court, the dukereceived him with marked courtesy, and questioned him about hisadventures. During the conversation he asked to see the chieftain'ssword, which was delivered into his hands without hesitation. The duketried to draw it from the scabbard, but as it was merely a dress-sword,not meant for use, it had become rusty. After a second attempt he handedit back to the owner, saying: "That his sword was never so difficult todraw when the crown wanted its service." Lochiel was so embarrassed thathe did not know what reply to make, but drew the sword and handed itto his royal highness, who turning to the courtiers present, said: "Yousee, my lords, Lochiel's sword gives obedience to no hand but his own!"and thereupon knighted the Highlander on the spot.
The duke arrived in Scotland just after an insurrection, when manypeople lost their lives and property; but he exerted such an excellentinfluence that peace was soon restored, and prisoners liberated wheneverthey promised to cry "God save the King!" He governed Scotland well forhis brother, and won the love of the populace by always resorting tothe mildest of punishments in opposition to the barbarities practiced byLauderdale.
During the winter the duchess met with an accident that nearly cost herlife. She was thrown from her horse, and her long riding-habit becomingentangled in the saddle, she was dragged some distance and receivedseveral kicks from the terrified animal before she could be rescued.Fortunately this occurred on a sandy plain, otherwise she must have beenkilled. As it was, she was taken up covered with blood and perfectlyinsensible. She recovered in time, having received no serious injury,but was obliged to give up her favorite amusement; for her husband,who always considered horseback riding dangerous for women, exacted apromise that she would never so imperil her life again.
[A.D. 1681.] The spring brought bad news, for King Charles sent amessenger to inform his brother and sister that their little daughter,Isabel, had died at St. James's Palace. This cruel blow only made thebanishment and persecution of the duke and duchess harder to bear,and James wrote to his brother for permission to take his wife to somewatering-place in England, saying that she needed the change, and thatthe climate of Scotland did not agree with her.
Charles could not grant the request, because he feared that the duke'sreturn would be the signal for rebellion; but after three or fourmonths' deliberation the favor of Princess Anne's company was granted toher parents, and she went to Scotland to join them.
Shortly after her arrival the Duke of York rode in state from Holyrood,and opened parliament as lord high commissioner from his brother, theking. The duchess, Princess Anne, and all their ladies were present onthat occasion, and this was such an unusual sight that some of theold fogies considered it highly indecorous. The Scottish lords andchieftains had always settled their debates with dagger and sword,and it was in order to avoid such stormy scenes that the Duke of Yorkintroduced the refining influence of women's presence, and the effectwas highly satisfactory. After the meeting James gave a banquet to thewhole parliament, separate tables being laid for the lords and commons.
The city of Edinburgh returned the compliment with an entertainmentto the Court of Scotland that cost more than fourteen hundred poundssterling.
After their royal highnesses recovered from the shock occasioned by thedeath of their little daughter, life at Holyrood became one long sceneof gayety and brilliancy. There were balls, plays, and masquerades nightafter night,


and musical dramas, similar to the opera of the present day, inwhich the Princess Anne and other ladies of quality took part. So longas the plays were moral, Mary Beatrice honored them with her presence;for she believed that the stage ought to be a medium for givingwholesome instruction to the public, but she would countenance nothingcoarse or vulgar.
[[A.D. 1682.]] Affairs took such a favorable turn for James enuringthe following year that he was recalled to England. He arrived withthe Duchess and Princess Anne at Whitehall on the twenty-sixth of May,having been escorted up the river by a procession of barges, among whichwas the one containing the king and queen, who had gone to welcome them.In the evening the city of London was illuminated, and the rejoicing onaccount of the banished duke's return was universal.
[[A.D. 1684.]] St. James's Palace again became the home of the royalpair, where they had a little daughter born in August, but it diedwithin a few weeks. Two years later, so firm had the duke's positionbecome, that he was once more offered the post of lord admiral, whichhe eagerly accepted. During the period of peace and national prosperitythat preceded the death of Charles II., Princess Anne married PrinceGeorge of Denmark, but remained with her parents for awhile.
[[A.D. 1685.]] A plan to banish the Duke of York once more had just beenset on foot when King Charles died, and made way for him to mount thethrone as James II. Mary Beatrice felt so grieved at the death of herbrother-in-law that she could not rejoice at her own advancement; forCharles had been uniformly kind and amiable towards her, and she knewthat she had lost a friend when he died.
Compliments and congratulations were showered upon the new kingfrom all sides, and on the first Sunday after his accession he wasprayed for from every pulpit in the metropolis. King James began hisreign with some very necessary reforms; he forbade drinking and swearingamong others, and expressed his entire disapprobation of duelling, whichhe declared was no mark of courage.
The queen's health was not good at this time, and she became so palethat in spite of her religious scruples her husband advised her torouge, as other court ladies did, and she complied. The first timeFather Seraphin, a monk, saw her so disfigured he expressed hissurprise, and she explained that she had resorted to paint to concealher palor, whereupon the monk replied, bluntly: "Madame, I would rathersee your majesty yellow or even green than rouged."
The twenty-third of April, St. George's day, was appointed for thecoronation of the king and queen. The crown jewels had all been stolenby the Roundheads during the civil wars, so everything had to besupplied for the new queen, and the crown that was made specially forher was valued at one hundred and eleven thousand nine hundred pounds.
On the Thursday previous to the coronation, the king washed the feetof fifty-two poor men, that number corresponding with his age. On theappointed day the queen, who had slept at St. James's Palace, performedher devotions as usual, and was then attired by her women in a royalrobe of purple velvet, bordered with ermine, and looped with cords andtassels of pearls. Her tight-fitting frock underneath was of rich whiteand silver brocade, ornamented with pearls and precious stones. On herhead was a cap of purple velvet, turned up with ermine and edged witha band of gold, set with large diamonds. As soon as her toilet wascompleted, the queen was carried in her chair to Westminster, whereshe rested in a private room until the king and all those who were totake part in the ceremony had assembled.
When everything was ready, her majesty entered Westminster Hall,attended by her lord chamberlain, her other officers and ladies; theking entered at the same time by another door with his attendants, andthe royal pair took their seats under separate canopies at the upper endof the hall.
After the king's regalia had been delivered to him with the usualformalities, each article was placed on a table covered with richtapestry. Then the queen received the crown, sceptre, and ivory rod withthe dove, which were likewise deposited on the table, and subsequentlydistributed by the lord great chamberlain to the noblemen appointed tocarry them. These noblemen walked first in the procession, then followedthe queen, between the Bishops of London and Winchester, under a richcanopy, supported by sixteen barons. Four noble ladies carried hermajesty's train, and eight bed-chamber women followed. The king'sprocession came next, and all proceeded in solemn state through apassage made by a double line of horse and foot guards to the abbey. Thepath was thickly strewn with fresh flowers by six young ladies, dressedin pointed bodices, with full brocaded skirts, looped back over richpetticoats. They wore hoods, gloves, and deep ruffles falling from theelbow. Trumpets were blown, drums beat a march, and the choir sang thewell-known anthem, "O Lord, grant the king a long life!" etc., all theway to the church.
It required several hours for all the ceremonies of the coronation tobe performed, and the devotion of the queen in following the prayersand making the responses was observed by all present. King James hadbestowed a great deal of pains on his wife's regalia, but none onhis own, so the crown that had been made for Charles II. was used forhim, though it did not fit at all. The heads of the two brothers wereas different as their characters, and it was regarded as an ominous signthat the crown could not be made to stay on James's head.
The queen performed a noble deed of charity on that day that broughtthe blessings of thousands upon her head. She released all prisoners whowere in jail for small debts, and herself paid every sum not exceedingfive pounds. No wonder that the air rang with cries of "Long live QueenMary!"
When the ceremonies at the abbey were concluded, the procession returnedto Westminster Hall, and their majesties rested in private rooms untilall the company had taken their places at seven long tables whichwere laid for the banquet. Then the king, preceded by his great stateofficers, entered with the crown on his head, and the sceptre and orb ineither hand, and seated himself in his chair of state at the head of theroyal table. The queen did the same, her place being at the king's lefthand. Most of the ancient ceremonies of coronation banquets wererevived that day, and some of them are so curious that they will bearrecounting. Certain lords went to the kitchen to receive the dishes andpresent them to their majesties, which was done in this way: The masterof the horse called for a dish of meat, wiped the cover and the dishcarefully, tasted the contents, and then ordered it to be conveyed tothe royal table, he preceding the first course on horseback the fulllength of the hall, followed by a train of the principal officers of thehousehold. Thirty-two dishes were brought up by the Knights of the Bath,and a number of others by private gentlemen. When the dinner wasplaced on the table, the lord chamberlain, carvers, cupbearers, andassistants went to the king's cupboard and washed; then the greatbasin was brought for the king to wash his hands. Before doing so hedelivered his sceptre to a nobleman appointed to hold it, and the orbto the Bishop of Bath. The queen washed also, but she used only a wetnapkin presented by the Earl of Devonshire on his knees. Grace wassaid, and their majesties sat down to the dinner, which consisted of athousand dishes; among them were many Scotch dainties which reminded theking and queen of the hospitalities they had received in the North.
Before the second course Sir Charles Dymoke rode into the hall ona splendid white horse, preceded by trumpeters, and attended by twogentlemen, one bearing his lance, the other his target. He was dressedin white armor, and wore a red, white, and blue plume in his helmet.He was brought up to the royal table, where the herald proclaimed hischallenge, and the champion threw down the gauntlet. This was repeatedthree times, when the king drank from a gold cup which he presented tohis champion, who then rode out of the hall. Several lords presentedwine to the king on their knees, each one receiving the silver or goldcup his majesty drank out of for a present.
When the dinner was ended grace was said, the washing of hands wasrepeated with the same ceremony as before, and their majesties withdrew.In the retiring-room they delivered their regalia to the Dean ofWestminster, whose duty it was to keep such valuables under lock andkey.
One of King James's first acts after he ascended the throne was torelease several thousand Roman Catholics and members of other churcheswho had been imprisoned for refusing to worship according to theprescribed laws of England. He also put a stop to the practice that hadbeen permitted for many years of people informing against one anotherabout their religious beliefs. As this was often resorted to merelyto gratify some personal spite, and had been the means of bringing manyan innocent person to the stake, King James did well to abolish it; buthe was fighting the prejudices of the people, and could more easily havetaken an impregnable fortress, as he soon found to his cost. Many of hissubjects were offended at the display James made of his own religion,particularly when he opened a Catholic chapel at Whitehall, and insistedon going there in state with his wife, attended by the high officers oftheir household, to receive the sacrament. His lord treasurer, the Earlof Rochester, pretended to be ill as an excuse for absenting himself.The Dukes of Norfolk and Somerset openly refused to attend. It was theduty of Lord Godolphin, the queen's chamberlain, to lead her majesty bythe hand to her place in the chapel, and to the altar when she choseto receive the sacrament. Although a Protestant, the chamberlain was socharmed with her majesty's beauty and graceful manners that he would notforego his privilege.
King James summoned parliament in June because the Duke of Argyle raiseda rebellion in Scotland, while Monmouth did the same in England, andfunds were required to suppress both. Monmouth had always been one ofJames's bitterest and most dangerous enemies, because he thought he hada claim to the throne; he therefore issued a proclamation, denouncingthe king "as a usurper, a murderer, a traitor, and a tyrant." He accusedJames of burning the city of London, of murdering Godfrey,--both eventsare treated of in the last reign,--of cutting the throat of Essex, andof poisoning his brother, Charles II. He raised an army of ten thousandmen, and received so much encouragement at Taunton that he proclaimedhimself king, and set a price on the head of "the usurper, James, Dukeof York."


Such prompt and active measures were taken by the royal party thatboth Argyle and Monmouth were defeated and captured. The latter imploredthe king for mercy, and succeeded in obtaining a private interview.James had forgiven this bold man for many personal offences when he wasDuke of York, but now his position was altered. He was King of England,and could not find it in his conscience to pardon an offender who hadplunged his realm into civil war, and sacrificed the lives of threethousand of his subjects. Story, the orator, was taken prisoner forassisting Monmouth with his exciting speeches, that went far towardsraising the popular indignation against the sovereign.
When summoned to appear before the council he looked so haggard,neglected, and dirty that King James exclaimed, "Is that a man, orwhat is it?" On being informed that it was the rebel Story, his majestyreplied: "Oh, Story; I remember him--a rare fellow, indeed." Thenturning towards him, the king asked: "Pray, Story, you were inMonmouth's army in the west, were you not?"
"Yes, an't please your majesty."
"Pray, you were a commissary there, were you not?" asked the king.
"Yes, an't please your majesty."
"And you made a speech before great crowds of people, did you not?" wasthe next question,
"Yes, an't please your majesty," answered Story.
"Pray, if you have not forgot what you said, let us have a taste of yourfine speech, some specimen of the flowers of your rhetoric."
"I told them, an't please your majesty, that it was you who fired thecity of London," boldly answered Story.
"A rare rogue, upon my word," exclaimed James; "and, pray, what else didyou tell them?"
"I told them, an't please your majesty, that you poisoned yourbrother."
"Impudence in the utmost height of it!" said the king. "Pray, let ushave something further, if your memory serves you."
"I further told them," continued Story, "that your majesty appeared tobe fully determined to make the nation both papists and slaves."
The king had heard enough, and no doubt wondered at the audacity of aman who dared to accuse him to his face of crimes that his very soulwould have revolted at. But with remarkable clemency his majesty added:"To all this I doubt not but a thousand other villanous things wereadded. But what would you say, Story, if after all this I were to grantyour life?"
He answered, "That he would pray for his majesty as long as he lived."
Thereupon he was freely pardoned, but Monmouth and Argyle were executed.
This victory of King James's would have increased his popularity andmade him extremely powerful, had it not been for the cruel deeds thatresulted from it. But Colonel Kirke and Chief-Justice Jeffreys were twobarbarians, who caused the execution of thousands, whether innocent orguilty; going from one town to another whence Monmouth had gathered hisforces, and committing most unheard-of cruelties.
Such deeds, added to the mistake James made in attempting to haveeverything his own way, regardless of the will of parliament, led tohis ruin and downfall. Popular indignation was aroused against all RomanCatholics, King James included, when Louis XIV. revoked the edict ofNantes. This was a law that had been made by Henry IV., granting thefree exercise of religion to all Protestants, and when it waswithdrawn, of course, persecutions followed. The result was that nearlyfifty thousand Protestants sought refuge in England, and King Jamestreated them with a great deal of consideration.
[[A.D. 1687.]] The queen spent part of the spring of 1687 at RichmondPalace, while James visited his camp at Hounslow; but her health wasso poor that she was ordered by her physicians to take a course oftreatment at Bath, and while there news of her mother's death reachedher. This was a sad bereavement, and one from which Mary Beatrice didnot soon recover. It opened a correspondence between her and the Princeof Orange, who, while expressing affectionate sympathy, was secretlyplotting for the overthrow of his royal father-in-law. The king was verymuch under the influence of Sunderland, and of the Jesuit, Father Petre,both bad advisers; but he was also on terms of intimacy with WilliamPenn, the founder of the State of Pennsylvania. This high-minded Quakerentered the king's presence one day, shortly after he ascended thethrone, with his hat on his head. James immediately removed his,whereupon Penn said: "Friend James, why dost thou uncover thy head?" Theking replied with a smile: "Because it is the fashion here for only oneman to wear his hat.".
Penn was sent to Holland to persuade William, Prince of Orange,to concur with the king in trying to do away with those laws thatinterfered with religious privileges in England, but met with nosuccess, either with him or his wife, Mary.
[[A.D. 1688.]] Queen Mary Beatrice had a little son born at St. James'sPalace in 1688, and there was great rejoicing among the king's friendswhen the infant prince appeared, which was echoed in Edinburgh.
The royal father felt so happy at the birth of his son that, in anevil hour, he granted forgiveness to Nathaniel Hook, who had been theDuke of Monmouth's chaplain. This man became one of the tools of Williamof Orange, and acted as a spy on the actions of the sovereign who hadshown him such mercy.
A grand display of fireworks took place in honor of the prince's birthwhen he was a few weeks old, and the royal couple were present at thepalace window to witness it. Mary Beatrice was gratified by a letterof congratulation sent by the pope on the birth of her son, because hisholiness had never been friendly since she married without his consent,nor was he now, as we shall see.
The persons who were anything but pleased at the little fellow'sappearance in the world were William of Orange and his wife, becauseboth felt that he was in their way as heir to the crown.
One of William's agents was discovered at Rome in secret correspondencewith the pope's secretary, Count Cassoni. He was disguised as a peddlerof artificial fruit, which, on being opened, were found to contain slipsof paper, written in cypher, that disclosed a plan for the destructionof the king and the little prince. William of Orange was at the bottomof the conspiracy, and intended to carry out his purpose in this way:The pope was to supply funds to be used by the Prince of Orange forthe invasion of England, which coming from such a source would not besuspected. All this was disclosed by the slips of paper contained in thefruit, and reached the ears of King James himself.
The royal infant was so very ill when he was about two months old thatit was thought each moment would be his last; however, he was providedwith a good healthy nurse and got well, much to the delight of hisparents, and the disgust of those whose interest it was to wish him outof the way. Then the king and queen with their household removed toWhitehall, and soon after her majesty's birthday was observed with theusual ceremonies and rejoicings.
Mary Beatrice kept up a regular correspondence with the Prince ofOrange, with whom she had always been on the most loving terms, and didnot know what to make of the news that came to her about this time. Itwas that the Dutch fleet was hovering off the coast of England, readyat a moment's notice to make an attack. The queen could not believesuch horrible tidings, and wrote her daughter: "That it was reportedthe Prince of Orange was coming over with an army, and that her highnesswould accompany him; but she never would believe her capable of turningagainst a good father, who, she believed, had always loved her the bestof all his children." It was, nevertheless, true, and the storm thatwas to drive King James from the throne was gathering darkly and surely.James had committed some grave mistakes as a ruler, as a politician, asa theologian, and gladly would he have made amends, but it was too late.The King of France offered assistance, but with all his faults Jamesloved his country too well to allow a foreign army to come to hisrescue. He preferred other measures, whereby he hoped and fondlyexpected to avert the horrors of civil war. But his enemies were in hisvery household, and treachery surrounded him on all sides. The men whobreakfasted with him in the morning, and pretended to be most loyal,deserted him before night. When he ought to have gone in person to repelthe attacks of the Dutch fleet, he was persuaded by traitors to stay anddefend the metropolis. When at last he did go he was so ill, so brokendown, both in mind and body as to be utterly unfit for exertion of anykind. His confidential councillors went over to the enemy, and as thePrince of Orange advanced with his forces, James retreated towardsLondon, paralyzed by the treachery that was daily brought to light.But the most heartrending blow of all awaited him on his return tothe metropolis, for the first news he heard was that Princess Anne haddeserted him. "God help me!" he exclaimed, bursting into tears, "My ownchildren have forsaken me in my distress." When he entered the palacehe added in the bitterness of his grief, "Oh, if mine enemies only hadcursed me, I could have borne it!"
Now, the unfortunate king's anxiety was for the faithful wife who hadawaited his return in fear and trembling, and the innocent baby whoselife the fond father feared was in danger. The valiant James Stuart offormer years no longer existed; for he would not have submitted to theadvance of a foe without offering desperate resistance, nor would hehave abandoned his country at a moment when she needed his services.
The heart-broken King James summoned his council, asked their advice,and appealed to their loyalty. They told him "he had no one to blame buthimself," but offered no comfort or assistance. Indignation at the basetreatment of those who ought to have stood by him in his adversity andgrief, at the thought of the strait to which his own bad management hadbrought himself and his dear ones, had turned poor King James's mind;he could no longer protect his realm, for he was not in a conditionto decide clearly on any subject. His entire attention was now turnedtowards the only two beings who were left him in the world,--his wifeand baby; and those he was determined to save though he should forfeithis own life.
It so happened that two Frenchmen, named Count de Lauzun and his friendSt. Victor, had become so interested in King James and the stateof affairs in England that they had offered their services to thedistressed sovereign. To these two gentlemen James resolved to intrustthe care of his wife and child, and they eagerly consented toundertake the dangerous task of conveying them to France. They met theking and decided upon a plan so secretly that it was not suspected byany one. St. Victor went to Gravesend and hired two yachts,--one in thename of an Italian lady about to return to her own country, the other inthat of Count Lauzun.
December 9 was the day appointed for the queen to leave London. It wasSunday, but some of the advanced troops of the prince's army, who haddispersed in different parts of the city, began the day by burningCatholic houses and chapels, and creating a tumult that terrified thepeaceful citizens, while tidings of other dreadful occurrences came fromall parts of the kingdom. When night approached the queen implored herhusband to allow her to remain and share his peril, but he assuredher that he would follow her within twenty-four hours, and that it wasnecessary for the safety of their child that she should precede him. Atten o'clock their majesties went to bed, and when all was dark and quietin the palace they got up and began preparations for departure. Shortlyafter midnight St. Victor ascended a secret staircase to the king'sapartment. He was dressed like a common sailor, though he was well-armedunderneath his coarse attire, and brought a disguise for the queen. LadyStrickland was in waiting that night, and assisted her majesty until twoo'clock, when all who were to share the journey met in the apartmentof Madame Labadie, where the prince had been carried secretly some timebefore.
Turning to the count, King James said: "I confide my queen and son toyour care; all must be hazarded to convey them with the utmost speedto France." Reserving a silence that was more eloquent than words, thequeen gave her husband a parting look, then crossed the grand hall,and stole softly down the back-stairs with St. Victor, who hadpossessed himself of the keys. The two nurses followed close behindwith the sleeping infant. A coach that St. Victor had borrowed from anItalian friend, without telling him to what use it was to be employed,stood at the gate. The queen, Count de Lauzun, and the two nurses withthe baby entered, while St. Victor took his seat beside the coachman,and Mary Beatrice left Whitehall never to return. The coach had to passsix sentinels, who called out, "Who goes there?" Each time St. Victorreplied boldly, "A friend," and, showing the keys, was permitted to passwithout opposition. At Westminster the fugitives entered a boat in whichSt. Victor had crossed on several previous nights with his gun and abasket of cold provisions to make believe that he was a sportsman andthus avoid suspicion. But this particular night was so stormy, andthe rain poured in such torrents, that the boatman must have known nounimportant errand would tempt a woman with an infant six months old tomake so dangerous a trip, for the river had swollen, and the wind wasblowing violently. When the travellers reached the opposite bank, whichwas at last accomplished after a great deal of difficulty, St. Victorlooked anxiously around for the carriage that ought to have stood inwaiting as he had arranged; but Monsieur Dusions, one of her majesty'spages, appeared promptly at a call, and said that it was still at theinn. St. Victor ran to fetch it, leaving De Lauzun to protect the queen,who stood for shelter under the walls of the old church at Lambeth, withher infant clasped close to her breast, dreading lest he should wakeand betray her presence by his cries. But the little prince behaved wellthroughout the journey, happily unconscious of the danger to which hewas exposed. Meanwhile St. Victor, at the inn-yard had excited somecuriosity by his agitated manner, and his foreign accent, whichprompted a man on watch to start out with his lantern to reconnoitre.Seeing that he directed his steps straight to where the queen waswaiting, St. Victor hastened with all speed to the other side of theway, and then put himself in the man's path as though by accident,awkwardly pretended to be trying to clear the road, when the two camein contact and went rolling over in the mud together. The Frenchman wasprofuse in his apologies, which mollified the other man, who returned tothe inn to relight his lantern and wash off the mud. This gave the queenand her party time to proceed, and before they had cleared three milesthey were met by one of her majesty's equerries, who, by the king'sthoughtfulness, had been sent with a fresh horse and a pair of boots forSt. Victor, of which he was sorely in need by that time. When the queenreached Gravesend a little boat conveyed her to the yacht, thatwas filled with friends who had preceded her from London, and weredetermined to share her exile. Among them were Lord and Lady Powis,Anna Montecuculi, who had gone to England with Mary Beatrice when shemarried; Father Giverlai, the queen's confessor; William Walgrave, herphysician; Marquis Montecuculi, Lord and Lady O'Brien Clare, MesdamesLabadie and Strickland, and two pages. These had gone down the Thames,consequently had made the passage in less time than the royal party hadrequired.
The captain of the yacht had not the-slightest suspicion of the rankof the Italian washerwoman, so anxiously awaited, who embarked with abundle of clothes under her arm, in which her little prince was safelyensconced. The queen was always ill at sea, but heretofore she had beenprovided with all the comforts her husband could devise, as well as thepleasure of his presence. It was very different now, when not daring toencounter the Dutch men-of-war, she was forced to cross the channel inan ordinary packet, deprived of common necessaries; for none ofthe functionaries thought it necessary to pay attention to a poorwasherwoman.
As soon as she boarded the vessel the queen went below to avoidobservation, while Madame Labadie, who knew Grey, the captain, engagedhim in conversation until the sails were hoisted and the yacht wellunder way. King James had ordered De Lauzun, in case the captaindiscovered the fugitives or betrayed any intention to put his wife andson into the hands of the Dutch, to shoot him dead. The count stationedhimself in a position to keep strict watch over every motion of thecaptain's, determined to act promptly in case of need; but that officersteered his course safely through a fleet of fifty Dutch ships, andlanded his passengers at Calais, as ignorant of the queen's presence aswhen he left the English coast.
Sixteen years before Mary of Modena had embarked on a royal yachtattended by her mother and a train of noblemen desirous of doing herhonor; now she landed at the same port, a forlorn fugitive, disguisedas a peasant, to seek refuge from the storm that had driven her froma throne. It would be hard to decide at which period' she was more anobject of sympathy, if we recall the reluctance with which she left herconvent home to unite her destinies with those of a man whom she hadnever seen, and behold her now, deprived of her regal state, it is true,but possessing a husband who has won her heart, and a dear little baby,who is her idol and his.
The governor of Calais wished to show Mary Beatrice the honors due aqueen of Great Britain, but she declined, and took up her residence at aprivate house to await the arrival of her husband, whom she expected tofollow her in a few hours. But the governor sent everything to herhouse that the queen needed for comfort, and fired a royal salute ather departure. Soon after landing at Calais, Mary Beatrice wrotea pathetic letter to Louis XIV., asking his protection for herself andson. He replied by sending his first equerry with the royal carriagesto attend the queen and her suite to Paris, and ordered that every honordue her rank should be shown the royal lady _en route_.
The king did not join his wife as he had promised, and she couldreceive no reliable intelligence as to his fate. Her heart was tornwith conflicting rumors, and she spent her days in tears at a convent atBoulogne, to which place she had removed.
[[A.D. 1689.]] It was not until the nineteenth of January that the queenknew the sad truth. Then she heard from the vice-admiral of England, whohad arrived at Calais, that the king had set out on his journey, whenhe was arrested by order of the Prince of Orange and taken back understrict guard. Overcome with despair, the queen decided to send her sonon to Paris, and return to London to share her husband's peril. But herfaithful attendants dissuaded her from a course that could only haveincreased the king's trouble without rendering him the least service,and urged her to be guided by the directions he had given her atparting. That very day King Louis's equerry arrived with letters andmessages from his majesty and a noble escort to convey the queen, withher attendants, to the Castle of St. Germain, which had been put inreadiness for their reception. So anxious were the faithful followersof Mary Beatrice to remove her from the coast, where she might at anymoment be tempted by some favorable opportunity to return to England,that they entreated her to accept the invitation of the King of Franceat once.
She yielded, and left Boulogne the next day. On arriving at Montrieul areport reached the royal party that King James was still at Whitehall.Now we must go back and see what really happened to James afterhis wife's departure. He wandered about in a state of nervous agitationuntil St. Victor returned from Gravesend with the announcement that thequeen had embarked safely, and he had seen the yacht well on her course.Then his majesty brightened up, although there was not an hour but newsreached him of the advance of his enemy's troops. Having summoned hiscouncil to meet at ten the next morning, the king went to bed as usual,without any intention of being present.
At midnight he arose, disguised himself in a black wig, and shabby,plain clothes, and attended by Sir Edward Hales, descended by a privatestaircase to the garden and proceeded as the queen had done two nightsbefore. He crossed the Thames in a little row-boat to Vauxhall, and whenin the middle of the river threw in the great seal that he had takenfrom Whitehall. This is an unaccountable proceeding, because heevidently meant to make use of the seal after he got to France, andhe must have changed his mind very suddenly. On arriving at Fever-shamafter travelling all night, Sir Edward Hales sent his servant to thepost-office, and as his residence was in that neighborhood, his liverywas immediately known. A gang of ruffians who had formed themselvesinto an association to prevent the flight of Roman Catholics to France,dogged the man's footsteps to the river side, where they discovered thatSir Edward had taken refuge on a custom-house boat. At eleven o'clockthat night fifty of the gang, armed with swords and pistols, boardedthe boat, rushed into the cabin? seized the king and his companion.Perceiving that his majesty was not recognized, Sir Edward took Ames,the leader of the ruffians aside, put fifty guineas in his hand andpromised a hundred more if he would allow them to escape. The man tookthe money and said he would go ashore to make arrangements forthem, but advised them to hand over all their valuables to his keeping,because he could not answer for the conduct of his men while he wasgone. The king gave him three hundred guineas and his watch, butcontrived to conceal his coronation ring and three diamond pins thatbelonged to the queen. As soon as the tide rose in the morning the gang,who had mistaken James for Father Petre, rowed the boat to shore, andputting their two prisoners in a carriage, drove them to an inn amidstthe shouts and yells of a mob that had assembled there. Suddenly aseaman in the crowd who had served under James recognized him, andbursting out into tears, knelt and begged to kiss his hand. The king wastouched at this proof of devotion and wept, while the ruffians who hadrobbed and insulted him fell on their knees and sued for pardon. Thenreturning his majesty's sword and jewels, the seamen who were presentdeclared "that not a hair of his head should be touched." Even then, hadthe king been in a proper state of mind, something might have been donefor his cause, surrounded as he was at that instant by a band of loyalsubjects; but he was mentally exhausted, and he began to talk in a wild,incoherent manner, until an alarming fit of nose-bleed left him in ahelpless condition. For two whole days nobody in London knew of KingJames's whereabouts, until a Kentish peasant presented himself at thecouncil chamber with a letter from his, majesty, stating his conditionand demanding assistance. Some of the lords were for treating theletter with silent contempt, but they were overruled, and an escort wasdespatched to bring his majesty back to Whitehall. He was received withevery demonstration of loyalty, and might have raised a powerful army torepel his foes, but his day had gone by; he could only weep and bemoanhis sad fate, constantly repeating: "God help me, whom can I trust? Myown children have forsaken me!" The king had been in London lessthan a week when he was rudely awakened at two o'clock one cold, stormymorning by three lords, who had openly avowed themselves his enemies.They came with an order from the Prince of Orange for him to leaveWhitehall before ten o'clock and proceed to Rochester. He made thejourney attended by a Dutch guard, who had orders from their prince togive their prisoner a chance to escape.
Accordingly the back door of the house at Rochester was purposely leftunguarded, and between twelve and one on the morning of December 23, theking attended by two faithful companions, made his way to the river andwas rowed down to Sheerness, where, boarding a fishing-boat, he waslanded on Christmas day at a village near Boulogne.
The queen was at Beauvais when she heard of her husband's arrival onFrench soil, and forgetting all her misfortunes in this welcome news sheraised her eyes to Heaven and exclaimed: "Then I am happy," and prayedaloud in the fulness of her heart.
It was on the twenty-eighth of December that Mary Beatrice approachedSt. Germain. King Louis XIV. had advanced with his son and brother to avillage at the foot of the hill on which stood the castle to await hisroyal guests. His cavalcade consisted of a hundred coaches, and all thenoble ladies and gentlemen who attended him were dressed in magnificentattire. When the queen drew near with her party, Louis left his coachand went forward to greet her. His officers stopped the first carriage,supposing it to contain her majesty, but the occupants proved to be thelittle prince with his governess and his nurses. All alighted out ofrespect to the king, who took the baby in his arms, hugged and kissedhim tenderly, and promised to cherish and protect the unconscious child.


Meanwhile Mary Beatrice had left her carriage and walked towardshis majesty, who saluted her affectionately. After a great manycomplimentary speeches on both sides, the king presented the dauphin,as his son was styled, and monsieur his brother, then the four royalpersonages got into his majesty's coach and were driven to the Palaceof St. Germain, which was to be the future home of Mary Beatrice. Theyalighted at the inner court, where, after placing everything atthe queen's command, Louis led her to the apartments that had beennewly-fitted up for the Prince of Wales. Such an affectionate welcomebrought tears to the eyes of Mary Beatrice, who began to feel that shenow needed nothing but the arrival of her beloved husband to fill herheart with peace.
St. Germain Palace had been gorgeously fitted up for Queen MaryBeatrice, and contained every article of luxury that she could possiblydesire. On her toilet table stood a casket of exquisite workmanship, ofwhich Tourolle, the king's upholsterer presented her the key with rathera significent air. This she observed; but her mind was so occupied thatshe did not remember to open the casket until the next day, when shebeheld six thousand bright, shining louis d'ors which the generous KingLouis had placed there for her use.
In the morning Louis and the dauphin sent to make inquiries abouttheir guests, and at six in the evening they paid her majesty a visit,attended by Monsieur and the Duc de Chartres. She was in bed, feelingill from the anxiety and fatigue she had undergone, but that did notprevent her receiving the royal guests. Queens were not allowed anyprivacy in those days, sick or well, and her majesty's chamber was sooncrowded with the courtiers who had followed their sovereign, while heand the dauphin sat on the bed and chatted quite merrily. In about halfan hour King James's arrival was announced, and Louis went out tomeet him. James bowed low as his kinsman advanced, but Louis took himin his arms and embraced him warmly three our four times. Then the twokings conversed in a low tone for fifteen minutes, after which monsieurand the dauphin were presented to James, who was then conducted to hiswife's room. As they entered, Louis said, playfully: "Madame, I bring agentleman of your acquaintance, whom you will be very glad to see." Thequeen uttered a cry of joy, and the royal couple surprised the Frenchcourtiers by hugging and kissing each other right before them all. Jameswas then led to the royal nursery, where it gladdened his heart to seethe comforts that surrounded his darling boy. Louis was scrupulouslymindful of every act of courtesy towards his unfortunate kinsman, andsent him a present of ten thousand pounds in such a delicate manner asnot to wound his pride.
St. Germain was familiar to King James, for it was there that he livedwith his mother and the royal family of France during the troubloustimes that preceded his father's death. After a lapse of twenty-eightyears he returned, again a fugitive, the last survivor of those who hadshared his first adversity. Mother, brothers, sisters, all were dead,his two daughters had deserted him; the son of his best beloved sister,who had become his son-in-law, had driven him from his throne, and hiswife and little son were deprived of their rights because of his fall.An appalling list of calamities; yet James bore them with a calmnessthat astonished his French friends. Both he and his wife felt theirdependence, and desired to live as much in private as possible; but itwas not permitted. The court of St. Germain was formed on the modelof King Louis's, but the French officers were soon replaced by thosemembers of the queen's household who followed her, though theirproperty was confiscated and they forfeited the rights ofcitizenship by so doing. Mary Beatrice's old coachman, who had formerlyserved Oliver Cromwell, followed his royal mistress to St. Germain, andcontinued to drive her state coach until he died of old age.
[[A.D. 1689.]] At first the etiquette of the French court was veryirksome to Mary Beatrice, for it was much more formidable than inEngland, and she would have made many mistakes had she not had the goodsense to refer all matters of precedency to Louis XIV. himself, and inevery case to abide by his decision. The wife of the dauphin refused tocall because the size and position of the chair she was to occupy in thepresence of the Queen of England was not according to her fancy, so MaryBeatrice waived ceremony and made the first call, and in course of timeit was arranged who was to sit, who was to stand, which noble lady orgentleman was to be placed to the right or the left of one of the royalpersonages, who was to go first, the size, shape, and height of thechair, besides many other matters that appear trivial to us; then allwent smoothly. Mary Beatrice became the fashion; Louis XIV., the _GrandeMonarque_, had held her up as a model for his daughter-inlaw, and said:"See what a queen should be," and that was enough to bring the wholecourt to her feet. Every one admired her ready wit, her grace, herbeauty, but above all, her charming manners and her devotion to herhusband. One day when King Louis was caressing her baby she said: "I hadenvied the happiness of my son in being unconscious of his misfortunes,but now I regret the unconsciousness which prevents him from beingsensible of your majesty's goodness to him."
The exiled king and queen were invited to St. Cyr to witness a newtragedy by Racine, and Mary Beatrice sat between her husband and LouisXIV. during the performance. Next day Louis entertained them athis palace at the Trianon, where the two kings had a long privateconference, while the queen played cards with some ladies and gentlemen.
Meanwhile affairs in England were going badly for the royal cause, andon the sixth of February a very small majority in parliament decidedthat the Prince and Princess of Orange should be proclaimed king andqueen.
James was still undisputed King of Ireland, and his subjects there urgedhim to visit their country; so, with a force consisting of a hundrednoble French gentlemen, Lauzun being of the number, besides twenty-fivehundred English and Scotch emigrants, he decided to go. King Louissupplied him with vessels and money, and offered troops, but Jamesreplied: "I will recover my own dominions with my own subjects or perishin the attempt." After his departure the queen left St. Germain and wentwith her little son to the convent of Poissy, intending to pass her timein prayers for the safety of her lord. From Poissy she went for awhileto the convent of Chaillot, several of the nuns of that community beingamong her best friends.
[[A.D. 1690.]] King James was received with joy in Ireland, where hisviceroy, Tyrconnel, met him with an army of forty thousand men, but theywere composed of half-clad peasants, who were willing to fight, but hadneither arms nor military discipline. With such forces little could beexpected, and though the king met with a few trifling victories at firsthe really gained nothing. Mary Beatrice pawned or sold her jewels tokeep him supplied with more money than she could manage to borrow fromthe French government, but all to no avail; one defeat came close uponthe heels of another, until the battle of the Boyne convinced James thathis cause was hopeless.
Fortunately the queen had not heard of this dreadful


defeat until news reached her that her husband was safe in France,and all misfortunes sank into insignificance compared with the anxietyshe had suffered on his account. In October the royal pair were invitedto Fontainebleau, one of King Louis's most splendid palaces, to spenda few days, during which they were entertained with most generousmagnificence. King Louis always sat at the queen's left hand, andshowed her marked attention on every occasion. When it rained the guestsremained indoors, and played a game of cards called loo in England,_paume_ in France, that had been introduced by the Dutch. They weretreated to a stag roast in the park by moonlight, and enjoyed seeingthe animal that had been killed by the two kings in the morning roastedwhole in the evening.
[[A.D. 1691.]] During all this time Mary Beatrice was in correspondencewith a great many people in England, who were most anxious for KingJames's restoration, and never consented to an allegiance to Williamand Mary. Dryden was one of these; he was Poet Laureate during James'sreign, and one of the queen's numerous admirers.
[[A.D. 1692.]] Assisted by King Louis XIV., James made another effort toregain his crown, but was defeated. The little prince was at that time ahandsome bright boy, four years of age, and before the king departed onthe expedition which terminated so disastrously he made his son a Knightof the Garter.
King James became very despondent when his bad luck continued, andwrote Louis XIV.: "My evil star has had an influence on the arms ofyour majesty, always victorious but when fighting for me. I entreat you,therefore, to interest yourself no more for a prince so unfortunate, butpermit me to withdraw with my family to some corner of the world whereI may cease to be an interruption to your majesty's wonted course ofprosperity and glory."
In the summer Queen Mary Beatrice had a daughter, and the king wasso pleased when he beheld the child that he called it "his comforter,"and said: "He had now one daughter who had never sinned against him."The princess was baptized with great pomp at St. Germain, and King LouisXIV., who acted as sponsor, gave her the name of Louisa Mary.
Mary Beatrice was now the mother of two fine healthy children, and bothshe and the king were happier than they had been in many a day.
Every year Mrs. Penn, the wife of the founder of Pennsylvania, paida visit to the queen at St. Germain, and always brought a great manypresents from friends in England to the royal exiles.
[[A.D. 1695.]] At the beginning of the next year very important news wasbrought to St. Germain. It was of the death of Mary II., then Queen ofEngland. It was naturally believed that after such an event the PrincessAnne would assert her claim to the throne; but she was too shrewd torisk anything by an open rupture with King William, whose health was sobad that she decided to await the natural course of events. Meanwhile,she played a twofold game by her friendliness towards the king, whileshe kept up a secret correspondence with her father.
[[A.D. 1696.]] The partisans of James urged him to make an attack onEngland after the death of Mary II., assuring him that a force of onlyten thousand men would be sufficient to reinstate him on the throne; buthe appeared strangely indifferent about that time, and could obtain noassistance from the French court. The next year, however, Louis XIV.did grant the required assistance; but so many circumstances prevailedagainst poor James that he was again unsuccessful, and returned to St.Germain. With a mistaken zeal for his cause, some of James's adherentshad made an attack on the person of King William, which did nobenefit to the exiled king, and caused the execution of many in England.
King James was so poor that the allowance made him by King Louis was notlarge enough to enable him to pay the pensions of those who had lostall their worldly possessions because of their loyalty to him, so hewas obliged from time to time to sell the queen's jewels. Mary Beatricewrote on this subject to her friend, the Abbess of Chaillot: "In respectto our poor, I shall never consider that I have done my duty untilI have given them all I have." By degrees she parted with all hervaluables for the relief of her unfortunate British followers.
[[A.D. 1697.]] In course of time circumstances compelled King Louis XIV.to acknowledge William as King of England; but in so doing he stipulatedthat Mary Beatrice should receive her dower regularly. Then the queenarranged that every payment should be made through the French king, towhom she owed so much; but she need not have troubled herself on thatscore, for although William charged the British nation with fiftythousand pounds annually for Mary Beatrice, he pocketed the entireamount and appropriated it to his own use. The excuse he gave was thatKing James and his wife were permitted to remain at St. Germain, thoughhe had peremptorily demanded their removal from France.
[[A.D. 1701.]] King James's health had been poor for several months, andthe queen had felt much anxiety on his account, though he did not growperceptibly worse. One Sunday he had an epileptic fit, which came on inchurch. He was carried out in a state of insensibility, and continuedill for several weeks, during which the queen remained constantly athis bedside, attending to his wants and watching every symptom as onlya devoted wife can. Later, the king was removed to the baths ofBourbon, and Louis XIV. sent Fagon, his chief physician, to attend him,and paid all the expenses of the journey for the entire party. Jamesimproved so much that in less than three months he returned to St.Germain, in time for the celebration of the birthday fêtes of hischildren, both of which occurred in the month of June. The prince wasfourteen at that time, and the princess was ten years of age.

But King James was not long to enjoy the society of his family, for thereturn of his illness laid him on his deathbed before many months. TheFrench council held a meeting to decide upon the English succession whenJames's death should occur, and the dauphin was one of the majoritywho decided in favor of the Prince of Wales. It was Louis himself whoconveyed the satisfactory intelligence to the dying king. As heentered the bedroom one of the attendants aroused the invalid, who hadbeen in a drowsy stupor all day, and announced the presence of the Kingof France. "Where is he?" asked James, with a painful effort.
"Sir, I am here," replied Louis; "and am come to see how you do."
"I am going to pay that debt which must be paid by all kings as well astheir meanest subjects," returned James, slowly. "I give your majestythanks for all your kindness to me and my afflicted family, and do notdoubt its continuance, having always found you good and generous."
Louis then informed the king that he had something of the greatestimportance to communicate, whereupon the attendants began to withdraw;but Louis exclaimed, "Let no one retire!" Then turning to James again,he continued: "I am come, sir, to acquaint you that whenever it shallplease God to call your majesty out of this world, I will take yourfamily under my protection, and will recognize your son, the Prince ofWales, as heir of your three realms." At these words, all present,both English and French, threw themselves at the feet of the powerfulsovereign, who mingled his tears with those that were shed around him.
The dying king extended his arms to embrace his royal friend, and said:"Thank God, I die with perfect resignation, and forgive all the world."
He then begged as a last favor that there might be no pomp at hisfuneral ceremonies. "That is the only favor I cannot grant," repliedLouis. James begged that any money King Louis might feel disposedto spend for that purpose should be employed for the relief of hisfollowers, whom he commended to that monarch's care.
The queen was so grieved that she was often obliged to hide herselfso that her husband might not witness her tears. His bed was situated inan alcove, and she would spend hours on the other side of the curtains,anxiously waiting for any sound from the dying king. While Louis XIV.was communicating his comforting news, Mary Beatrice sent for her sonand bade him throw himself at the feet of the kind-hearted monarch, andexpress his gratitude. Louis raised the boy and embraced him tenderly;then leading him into an adjoining room, conversed with him a longwhile, gave him some excellent advice, and promised to act the part of afather towards him.
King James had already taken leave of his children, but they werepermitted to see him several times before he died; and he always smiledlovingly, even though he could not speak to them. The day before heexpired King James bade farewell to the queen, and requested herto write to his daughter, the Princess Anne, and assure her of hisforgiveness; also to charge her to atone to her brother for the injuryshe had done him. Then he gave some advice about the prince; and whenMary Beatrice was overcome with emotion, he asked tenderly: "Why isthis? Are you not flesh of my flesh, and bone of my bone--are you nota part of myself? How is it, then, that one part of me should feel sodifferently from the other? I in joy and you in despair. My joy isin the hope I feel that God in his mercy will forgive me my sins andreceive me into his beatitude, and you are afflicted at it. I have longsighed for this happy moment, and you know it well: cease, then, tolament for me. I will pray for you,--farewell!"
This was the last interview the queen had with her husband, for he sankinto a state of unconsciousness, and died the next afternoon at threeo'clock. It was Father Ruga, the queen's confessor, who informed herwhen all was over. Although the blow was expected, it was hard to bear;for Mary Beatrice had hoped to the last that her husband mightstill be spared to her. Her resignation to the will of God was perfect;but her sorrow was heartfelt and bitter.
Crowds of French and English of all degrees passed in and out to takea last look at the dead king, who had requested that his chamber doormight be left open for that purpose. Then all the courtiers went to theprince and saluted him as king, and at the same time he was proclaimedat the gates of St. Germain by the title of James III., King of England,Scotland, Ireland, and France.
Court etiquette required that the queen also should offer the homage ofa subject to her boy. She said to him: "Sir, I acknowledge you for myking; but I hope you will not forget that you are my son." She was soovercome by this ceremony that she retired at once, and was driven tothe convent of Chaillot, where she desired to pass the first days of herwidowhood in complete solitude, refusing to see any one whatsoever.
The chapel had all been hung in black by the nuns as soon as the king'sdeath was announced, and when the tolling of the bell warned them ofMary Beatrice's approach, they went in procession to receive her at theconvent gate. She descended from her coach in silence, followed byfour noble ladies who had accompanied her. The nuns gathered around herwithout speaking, the abbess kissed the hem of her robe, some of thesisters embraced her knees, and others respectfully pressed their lipsto her hand, but no one ventured to offer a word of comfort.
The queen passed straight into the chapel; she was bowed down withgrief, though she did not shed a tear. That time was passed, and sheseemed stupefied. One of the nuns approached and asked in the words ofthe psalmist, "My soul, will you not be subject to God?" "Hiswill be done," replied the queen, in a tremulous voice. Prostratingherself before the altar, she remained long in prayer. At last thenuns begged her to eat, for she had partaken of no food since the nightbefore, and they feared she would faint. She was led to her bedroom,but insisted on hearing more prayers, and complained that she could notweep, saying "that even that solace was denied her."
Her attendants were sent to bed, but two of the nuns passed the nightwith the queen, who moaned and sighed and prayed by turns with scarcelya moment's repose. The next night the king's heart was conveyed toChaillot and placed near that of his mother; but by King Louis's orderit was received so quietly that Mary Beatrice was not excited by it.However, a few hours later she assured the abbess that she felt it wasnear her, and spoke a great deal about her dead husband. Among otherthings, she said: "That he had felt his humiliation, and above all theinjustice he had experienced, very keenly; but that the love of God hadchanged all his calamities into blessings."
Mary Beatrice would have liked to pass the rest of her days at Chaillot,but she had other duties to perform and many more years to live.
In his will King James had directed that he should be buried with hisancestors at Westminster Abbey; therefore the queen ordered that thefuneral service should be performed in France, but that the body shouldremain unburied until the restoration of her son, which she fondly hopedwould soon take place.
It was therefore at the chapel of the Benedictine Monks that the corpseof King James remained covered with the pall for many years, until allhope for the Stuart family had vanished forever.
The queen remained at Chaillot only four days, for her childrenneeded her at St. Germain, and she returned to them on the nineteenth ofSeptember.
The next day King Louis called on her, and she received him in adarkened room hung with black. He tried very hard to console the widowedqueen by kind offers of protection to her and her son, and insisted uponher receiving the same courtesy from his ministers as though she hadbeen queen regent really and not only in name.
[[A.D. 1702.]] However King James's will had given her that title,and her first steps was to publish a manifesto in the name of her son,setting forth his claim to the crown of Great Britain. It made littleimpression in England, but those who were opposed to King William inScotland were anxious to bring the young king forward. So Lord Belhavenwas sent to consult the queen as to what was best to do, and told herthat if only her young son would declare himself a Protestant he shouldbe proclaimed King of Scotland without waiting either for the death ofWilliam or the consent of parliament. Her majesty replied: "That shewould never be the means of persuading her son to barter his hopes ofHeaven for a crown." Then Lord Belhaven was willing to compromise, andsaid, "That if the prince would not change his religion, would he notagree that only a limited number of Romish priest, should enter hiskingdom, and that he would make no attempt to alter the establishedreligion?" This the queen freely promised in the name of her son, andthen the lord declared that he and his party would do all in their powerto establish King James's heir on the throne.
Mary Beatrice would have resigned herself to fate if she had not feltconvinced that her son's rights were denied him so long as any Stuartclaimed the crown. At the time of the prince's birth, parliament haddecided that he should succeed his father, James II., and a new interestwas awakened in him on account of the sympathy felt in Englandfor him and his widowed mother. Alarmed that such would be the state ofaffairs, William hired a notorious fellow to prove that the Prince ofWales was not the son of James II. and Mary Beatrice at all, but thatone Mrs. Mary Grey was his real mother, who had been murdered in Parisshortly after his birth. A copy of the book containing a full account ofthis matter was presented to the lords, the ministers of state, and thelord mayor. Of course this statement was utterly false and absurd, andraised the indignation of the House of Commons to such a degree thatFuller, the man who got out the book, underwent the disgrace of thepillory. But as he had often been employed by William III. as a spy andhad been punished more than once for perjury, he did not sink under thedisgrace as an honest man would have done.
As soon as the news of King James's death reached William III. he wasprepared with a blow to aim at his orphan cousin that he was determinedshould not fail if he could help it. It was an accusation of hightreason, in which Mary Beatrice was also included. The bill, as Williampresented it to his parliament, did not designate his uncle's widow asthe queen dowager, because he had pocketed her dower, and he desired todeprive her even of the honors due a royal lady. So she is called "Mary,late wife of the late King James."
Without describing all the scenes enacted in parliament while thisdisgraceful bill was under consideration, it is only necessary for us toknow that it passed the House of Lords; but when it was laid before theCommons, they pitched it under the table.
The very last act of William III. was to affix the royal seal to thebill that he had exerted every means to have executed against the youngPrince of Wales. He was on his death-bed when it was presented forhis signature, but controlled his almost paralyzed fingers enough forthe accomplishment of this last act of hatred.
He expired the next day.
Mary Beatrice was so ill when this event occurred that no one venturedto speak of it in her presence. Her life hung on a thread for many daysand depended for its continuance on absolute repose. Therefore she couldtake no steps towards claiming the crown of England for her son at theproper moment; and by the time she was convalescent her step-daughterAnne was peacefully settled on the throne, and all hope for the youngprince vanished forever. But Simon Fraser, generally called Lord Lovat,had proclaimed the prince King of Scotland, in the county of Invernessas soon as the death of William III. was known there. When Mary Beatricewas well enough to attend to business, this man presented himself at St.Germain as the representative of a large party in his native land, andurged the queen-mother to send her son to Scotland to fight for hisrights. He said that an army of twelve thousand men could easily beraised in the Highlands, provided the King of France would assist witharms and money, and that the Scottish people would spare no effortsif they could only see the prince for whom they were to fight in theirmidst. But Mary Beatrice considered her boy too young to undertake sucha perilous enterprise; and the very thought of the fate that awaited him,should he fall into the hands of his enemies, caused her to refuse tolet him leave her. Ambition was not the leading trait of the fallenqueen.
[[A.D. 1703.]] In the autumn Lord Lovat applied to Mary Beatrice again,and represented affairs in Scotland and Ireland as so favorable to theinterest of the prince that she was thoroughly deceived, and withoutconsulting any of her friends, sold all the jewels she had left,and gave the money to this treacherous creature. It was afterwardsproved that Lovat was the bribed instrument of Queen Anne's cabinet, bywhom all his expenses had been paid, while he pretended to be servingthe Prince of Wales. He did a great deal of mischief, but like manyknaves, bribed and intrigued until he overstepped the mark, and wasarrested the next time he appeared in France. He was shut up at theCastle of Angoulême, where he was kept a close prisoner for severalyears.
[[A.D. 1704.]] In August Mary Beatrice attended a grand fête at Marli,given by Louis XIV. to celebrate the birth of a great-grandson. TheKing and Princess Louisa were present also, and were given the places ofhonor after their mother, who always sat at the right hand of Louis XIV.Poor Mary Beatrice had little heart for festivities of any sort, for shewas suffering from an incurable malady which often compelled her to keepher bed for several days at a time, and her son's health was so delicateas to render him a constant source of anxiety to her. He was justseventeen years of age, and the Princess Louisa was thirteen. The latterhad inherited all her mother's grace and beauty, and was consideredquite an ornament at the French court.
[[A.D. 1705.]] The young king opened a ball at Marli with his sister,and all the time they were dancing the King of France stood as a markof respect. He would have done the same every time had not thequeen-mother, who sat at his side, persuaded him to sit down.
At all the festivals Mary Beatrice was placed between Louis XIV. and herson, while Princess Louisa and the immediate members of the French royalfamily occupied seats at the same table. But King Louis was not willingto risk more money or men in an attempt to raise an insurrectionagainst Queen Anne's government in Scotland. Even had he consentedto do so, his ministers would have opposed it. All this time Godolphin,who in former days had felt so proud at being permitted to hand thequeen to her chair in the royal chapel, was in secret correspondencewith Mary Beatrice, and constantly flattered her with false hopes. If hehad possessed sufficient courage to make a demand of Queen Anne and hercabinet for the payment of the royal widow's dower and all the moneydue her that William III. had appropriated to his own use, no doubt theclaim would have been allowed. But fear lest certain crooked acts of hislife might be disclosed rendered him irresolute and anxious to publiclymaintain a neutral ground.
[[A.D. 1706.]] When the young king completed his eighteenth year he wastreated by every one at the court of St. Germain as their sovereign,though the queen-mother was really the leader there as long as shelived. At this period young James began to take some share in stateaffairs, and showed no ordinary ability. He was a great favorite withKing Louis, who made frequent visits, both public and private atSt. Germain, and invited the exiles to every fête he gave at Marli,Versailles, and Trianon.
[[A.D. 1707.]] Notwithstanding all her cares, ill health, anddisappointment, Mary Beatrice lived very pleasantly at St. Germain,where on fine summer afternoons she would walk with Louis XIV. in thepark, attended by the whole court. It was on such occasions that thequeen-mother would ask any favor that she might require at the handsof the monarch, and she was seldom refused. It gratified her to seethe enjoyment her children derived from the parties of pleasurethey frequently formed for the purpose of gathering flowers and wildstrawberries in the neighboring forests, or of rowing on the Seineto Pontalie. It was at that place that the Countess de Grammont livedin a rural château. She was a wealthy lady, who had once been one of thecelebrated beauties at the court of Charles II., and now felt pleasedto contribute to the happiness of the exiled Stuarts, instead of turningher back on them as many had done. She had known the young king and hissister from infancy, and when they made excursions with their court toher house nothing gave her greater pleasure than to provide banquets andentertainments of every description for them.
[[A.D. 1708.]] The Grande Monarque suddenly changed his mind in thespring, and determined to fit out a fleet, headed by the young king, forthe purpose of making a descent on the coast of Scotland. Not a word wassaid about this matter until all the arrangements were completed; but assoon as the exiled king was informed of the project, he took hastyleave of his mother and sister and set out for Dunkirk, the place ofembarkation, ordering his luggage to be sent after him. No sooner hadhe reached the coast than he was attacked by measles, which detainedhim several days. Becoming impatient of delay, he was at last carriedon board one of the vessels of his fleet; but not before the English hadbeen warned of his approach, and were on the lookout for him.
Sir George Byng commanded the English fleet, and it is said that hecaptured the "Salisbury," with the prince on board; but this is notpositively known. If he did, he saved Queen Anne a great deal ofperplexity by permitting his royal prisoner to sail out of the Frith ofForth, where he encountered the French fleet, and return to France, forher majesty certainly would not have known what to do with him.
The prince returned to St. Germain, but several persons


of high rank were captured and sent to the Tower to await theirtrial for treason. Mary Beatrice wrote to the French minister, begginghim to do what he could for the prisoners, by representing them asofficers in the service of King Louis. But meanwhile Queen Anne'scabinet set a price on the head of "the pretended Prince of Wales," asthey designated the young man. Queen Anne herself went further, and gavehim the title of "the Pretender" in her address to parliament, knowingthat such a name would do more to injure his claim to the throne thananything else.
Shortly after his return from his unsuccessful attempt to invadeScotland, the young prince entered the French army, and served in theLow Countries as a volunteer, under the command of the Duke de Vendôme,who esteemed him very highly. As he had not the means to equip a camp inaccordance with his rank, the prince called himself the Chevalier de St.George, that being the order with which his royal father had investedhim when he was only four years old.
[[A.D. 1709.]] The French met with dreadful defeat at Malplaquet. TheChevalier de St. George fought manfully, and made twelve charges at thehead of the French troops, under a continuous fire of six hours from theBritish. His right arm received a sabre cut, but he did not shrink fromhis duty; and when the general sent despatches containing an accountof the battle, he added: "The Chevalier de St. George behaved himselfduring the whole action with the utmost valor and energy." Mary Beatricefelt very proud of her son, and returned to St. Germain with herdaughter to meet him, after having passed several weeks in completeseclusion at Chaillot convent.
[[A.D. 1710.]] The chevalier made a third campaign with the French army,but returned in bad health and spirits, and spent the followingwinter with his mother and sister, keeping up their separate courts atSt. Germain, as well as their poverty would admit. In the spring hemade a tour of France; and during his absence Mary Beatrice retiredto Chaillot again, where she was really happier than when compelled toobserve court ceremonies. While there the royal family of France did notdesert her, for they made her frequent visits, which she returned withher daughter, though it cost her a struggle each time she went to court.She always appeared in her widow's weeds; but the princess went in fullcourt costume.
[[A.D. 1711.]] Shortly after her son's return, Mary Beatrice received aletter from her old friend, de Lauzun, informing her that peace betweenFrance and England would probably soon be established, and, if so, LouisXIV. could no longer acknowledge the title or cause of her son. This wassad news indeed, but the poor queen bore it calmly; and upon the heelsof this report came assurance from Marlborough that the recall of theprince seemed certain to take place soon. Thus between hope and despairMary Beatrice was kept in a constant state of excitement.
When we recall the vicissitudes of the queen-mother's life, ouradmiration of her courage and resignation is changed to surprise thather strength did not succumb, when in her advanced years she was calledupon to bear a cruel blow, caused by the death of the darling and prideof her heart, the Princess Louisa.
[[A.D. 1712.]] This beautiful, affectionate, devoted daughter died ofsmall-pox in April, and her brother was ill of the same disease when shewas taken. The English at St. Germain were not more disconsolate thanwere the French at Versailles on account of the death of this younggirl, whose charming qualities had rendered her a general favorite. Butwhat must have been the agony of the poor mother, who, after beingdeprived of the chief solace of her old age, saw her son recover onlyto be separated from her by the stern decree of circumstances? Thenegotiations of peace between France and England required the princeto withdraw entirely from the French dominions, and this had only beendelayed on account of his illness.
Well, the time came at last when the Chevalier de St. George wascompelled to leave St. Germain, and his poor mother was so unhappy atparting with him that she went to Chaillot, where, in company of thenuns, she hoped to find comfort and resignation. She arrived at theconvent at seven o'clock in the evening, and burst into tears as shepassed through the gate, saying: "This is the first time that I feel nojoy in coming to this holy spot; but, my God, I ask not consolation, butthe accomplishment of thy divine will!"
She sat down to supper, but ate nothing; and when she retired to herchamber, attended by the three nuns who waited on her, she exclaimed:"At last I may give liberty to my heart and weep for my poor girl." Thenuns could not speak, their tears flowed in sympathy with their royalvisitor, who said several times between her sobs, "My God, thy will bedone," and then added: "Thou hast not waited for my death to despoil me:thou hast done it during my life; but thy will be done."
The next day Mary Beatrice was so ill that her physicians had to besummoned; and as she continued to grow worse, it was feared that shewould die at the convent; however, after a few days she recovered.
On the very day that the truce with England was proclaimed in Paristhe Chevalier de St. George went over from Livry to bid farewell to hismother. He met her at the church door as she came out; and as he hadjust been bled in the foot,--a form of medical treatment very popularin those days,--he was lame and leaned on his cane for support.Mary Beatrice was suffering from an attack of gout, which obliged heralso to make use of a cane; and the mother and son laughed heartily atthe coincidence. The abbess said to the chevalier, "Sire, we hope yourmajesty will do us the honor to dine with us, as your royal uncle, KingCharles, breakfasted when setting out for England."
"That journey will not be yet for me," he replied, drily.
September 7 was fixed for the chevalier's departure from Paris, and hewent again to the convent on the previous day to bid a long farewell tohis mother, whom he commended to the care of the nuns and her confessor,Father Ruga. Three days later he arrived at the French border, where hewas to stop until his future residence should be decided upon.
Mary Beatrice remained at the convent, where she was visited from timeto time by the most distinguished people of France; and the king senther presents of game, fruit, and flowers.
[[A.D 1713.]] A letter from the chevalier, written at the beginningof the following year, informed his mother that he had been mostaffectionately received at Bar-le-duc by the Duke and Duchess ofLorraine. The latter was a relation, being descended from James I., soit was very pleasing to the queen to hear that any one in whose veinsran Stuart blood should be kind to her son.
It was a sad day for the exiled queen when the peace of Utrecht wassigned, for one of the articles stated: "That, to insure forever thepeace and repose of Europe and of England, the King of France recognizedfor himself and his successors the Protestant line of Hanover, andagreed that he who had taken the title of King of Great Britain shouldremain no longer in France."
Mary Beatrice knew that it grieved King Louis to banish her son,but he was forced by the turn political affairs had taken to do it.
The Jacobites, as the opponents of William and Mary were called inEngland, never gave up the hope of seeing "the king over the water"--aname they had given to the Chevalier de St. George--restored to thethrone, and many of them went to France from time to time on purpose topay their respects to the queen-mother.
At the close of the year a report reached Mary Beatrice that her son wasabout to renounce the Catholic faith and become a member of the Churchof England; but a letter from him reassured her on that score, for hewrote: "I doubt not that the reports which are in circulation of myhaving changed my religion have reached you, but you know me too well tobe alarmed; and I can assure you that, with the grace of God, you willsooner see me dead than out of the church."
There was a great deal of distress at St. Germain on account of poverty;and as it was the loyal and faithful followers of Mary Beatrice whoactually suffered the pangs of hunger at times, she was sorely afflictedon their account.
[[A.D. 1714.]] At last a small part of the money due her in England wasordered to be paid by Queen Anne, which relieved the wants of many forthe time; but it was all Mary Beatrice ever received from that quarter,and by no means freed her from debt.
Shortly after this beneficent act Queen Anne died, and the moment theChevalier de St. George heard it he travelled post-haste, incognito, toParis to consult with his mother and other friends, having made up hismind to proceed at once to England to assert his claim to the throne.The Duke de Lauzun had hired a small house at Chaillot in his ownname for the reception of the royal adventurer, and thither MaryBeatrice went to meet him. He did not dare to venture near St. Germain,because he was too well known there, and preferred to keep his presencein France secret until he could ascertain what Louis XIV. would decideto do. That monarch had already paid dearly for the sympathy he hadshown the royal widow and her son; besides, France was in no conditionto maintain another war, so his majesty sent his minister, De Torcy, topersuade the Chevalier de St. George to return at once to Lorraine, andordered at the same time that in case of refusal the young claimant ofthe British crown was to be compelled to leave France immediately.
Utterly destitute of money, ships, or men, the prince was powerless totake any stand, and meanwhile George I. was proclaimed King of England.
Louis XIV. had yielded to the urgent entreaties of Mary Beatrice inbehalf of her son in so far as to command arms to be furnished for tenthousand men, and ships to transport them to Scotland, but before thesearrangements were completed his majesty died.
[[A.D. 1715.]] Then a formidable insurrection broke out in Scotland, andKing James III., as well as Mary, the queen-mother, were prayed forin the churches. When Mary Beatrice heard this she was in an agony ofsuspense, because she had had no news of her son for nearly three weeks.She knew that he had left Lorraine, and vague reports had reached herof his being in different parts of France in disguise, when suddenlyone day he appeared before her at Chaillot in the habit of a monk. Thechevalier spent only twenty-four hours with his mother, and then badeher farewell to set out on a journey fraught with danger. Spies wereeverywhere, and the identity of the strange monk was soon made knownto his enemies. He started from Chaillot in one of the post carriagesbelonging to the Baron de Breteul, a warm partisan of the Stuarts.The chevalier was still disguised as a monk, and travelled attendedby some horsemen who wore the livery of his friend, the baron. At thevillage of Nonancourt a shabbily dressed old woman stopped the carriage,and going close up to the door said to the disguised occupant: "If youare the King of England go not to the post-house or you are lost, forseveral villains are waiting there to murder you."
Knowing that a bribe of a hundred thousand pounds had been set on hishead by the British government, the chevalier dared not disregard sucha piece of intelligence, but he questioned the woman further. She toldhim that her name was L'Hopital, and added: "I am a lone woman, mistressof the post-house of Nonancourt; I warn you not to approach, because Ioverheard three Englishmen discussing with some desperate characters ofthis neighborhood a design to kill a traveller who was to change horseswith me to-night on his way to Château Thierry. I drugged their wine,and now they are so intoxicated that I locked them in the house, andcame to conduct you to the cottage of our curate, where you will besafe."
The chevalier was struck by the woman's earnestness and simplicity,and resigned himself to her guidance. Having conducted him and hisattendants to the house of the village pastor, L'Hopital summoned themagistrate, who, after hearing her story, arrested the three men andshut them up in prison. Two of them proved to be Englishmen and thethird a well known French spy.
The next morning the worthy post-mistress sent the chevalier forwardin another disguise, with fresh horses that soon carried him to Nantes,where a vessel awaited him, in which he descended the Loire to St. Malo.Finding an English squadron on the watch for him, the royal adventurer,attended by six gentlemen, all dressed as French naval officers,rode on horseback to Dunkirk, where they embarked on a small vessel andarrived at Perth, in Scotland, on the seventh of December.
Meanwhile Mary Beatrice had a severe attack of illness, occasioned byanxiety on her son's account, for she never heard of his arrival onBritish soil until he had been gone nearly two months.
Without entering into all the painful details of this expedition, it isonly necessary for us to say that, although the Scotch rejoiced at theidea of having "the auld Stuarts back again," it resulted, as usual, indefeat.
[[A.D. 1716.]] The Chevalier de St. George returned to France indisguise as before, and spent several days with his mother, althoughhis presence on French soil was interdicted, as we know. To have her sonunder the same roof with her once more was a satisfaction for which MaryBeatrice had scarcely dared to hope; but her pleasure was short-lived,for the very morning after she had embraced him Lord Bolingbroke, hisprivate secretary, waited on the chevalier to advise his immediatereturn to Bar. Etiquette required him to ask permission of the Duke ofLorraine, and as it would require several days to receive an answerfrom that kinsman, the chevalier repaired to Châlons rather than risk alonger stay on forbidden ground. His unsuccessful enterprise in Scotlandhad rendered his position much worse than it had been before with regardto the European powers, for they dared not offer him an asylum. Even hisformer friend, the Duke of Lorraine, refused to receive him, and he wasadvised to go to Sweden, but the spot he fixed upon was the beautifultown of Avignon.
Although the Regent Orleans would neither grant assistance to theChevalier de St. George nor permit him to remain in France, he treatedthe widowed queen with every mark of veneration. The British ambassadorhad remonstrated against her being allowed to remain at St.Germain, but she was too much loved and pitied by all classes of peoplefor the regent to consent to her removal, even had he desired it.Therefore, to her dying day Mary Beatrice maintained the state and titleof queen dowager of England, and lived undisturbed at the royal châteauthat King Louis XIV. had placed at her disposal when, as a fugitive, shehad sought his protection many years ago.
[[A.D. 1718.]] But the weary pilgrimage of poor Mary Beatrice wasdrawing to a close. Her last illness attacked her in April, and by thebeginning of the following month she knew that her end was near. Shedesired to receive the last sacraments of the church, and afterwardstook leave of all her faithful friends and attendants, thanking them fortheir services, and desiring all present "to pray for her and for theking, her son, that he might serve God faithfully all his life." Thisshe repeated in a louder tone, fearing that every one in the room, whichwas full of people, might not have heard.
The dying queen asked to see Marshal Villeroi, the governor of the youngKing of France, and when he appeared at her bedside sent an earnestappeal to the Regent Orleans and Louis XV., in behalf of her son, whomshe was to see no more. She also recommended her dependants to theircare, and begged that the regent would not let them perish for want in aforeign land when she was gone.
The next day the good queen expired, in the sixtieth year of her age andthe thirtieth of her exile. She had borne her sorrows and misfortuneswith true heroism to the last, and her death was worthy of her life.
When the mother of the Regent Orleans announced to her German relativesthat Mary Beatrice was dead, she added: "She never in her life did wrongto any one; if you were about to tell her a story about a person,she always said: 'If it be any ill, I beg you not to relate it to me; Ido not like histories which attack the reputation.'" It would be wellfor us who live in a more civilized age to lay this lesson to heart, andemulate the pious example of Mary Beatrice.






CHAPTER X. MARY II., QUEEN-REGENT OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
(A.D. 1662-1695.)
|Lady Mary of York, as this queen was styled in her youth, was a personof small importance, so far as any prospect of her ever occupying thethrone was concerned, for this reason: She was the daughter of James,Duke of York, second son of Charles I. and Henrietta Maria, whosehistory we have related.
Charles II. succeeded his father and married Catharine of Braganza, justat the time when Lady Mary was born, and everybody supposed that hischildren would be next in the line of succession. So they would havebeen if he had ever been blessed with any, but as he was not, hisbrother James, the luckless king of whom the last reign containsan account, mounted the throne, and then his daughters attained animportance that would not otherwise have been theirs.
The Duke of York's first wife was Anne Hyde, daughter of Clarendon,the lord chancellor, and as she was not of royal birth, a great deal ofdiscontent was occasioned on all sides. However, the marriage had beensecretly solemnized before any engagement was suspected, so it wouldhave been useless for any one to say much against it.
Lady Mary was born at St. James's Palace, only a couple of weeks beforeher uncle's marriage; so the public mind was occupied with preparationsfor the reception of the new bride; and the infant came into the worldas quietly. as though she had not been of royal blood. She wassent to her grandfather's house at Twickenham, where her nursery wasestablished; and being a very beautiful, engaging child, she was nodoubt indulged and fondled more than was good for her. She had a littlebrother born when she was not more than a year and a half old; but hedied within a short time. Lady Anne of York, the subject of the nextreign, was born when Mary was three years of age, and the elder sisterstood sponsor at the baptism of the infant.
The Duke of York was so fond of Lady Mary that he kept her in his armsall the time when he was at Twickenham, or when she was taken on a visitat St. James's Palace. Pepys, a literary gentleman, who published a mostinteresting diary of his times! says: "I was on business with the Dukeof York, and with great pleasure saw him play with his little girl justlike an ordinary private father." So we can easily imagine the rompingand merry sounds that must have enlivened the nursery when the duke madehis visits.
Shortly after the birth of Anne, the royal father returned from hisfirst grand naval victory, and found the Great Plague raging to such anextent that he at once removed his wife and children to York. That placehad the double advantage of pure air, and of being in the neighborhoodof the duke's fleet, that was cruising off the northeast coast to keepan eye on the Dutch ships.
The Duchess of York had everything about her very splendid in hernorthern home, and was so happy there that when her husband was summonedelsewhere she preferred not to accompany him. No doubt this lady hadfaults,--who has not?--but her most prominent one was an excessivelove of eating. This would have harmed no one but herself; therefore weshould not have recorded it, if it had not been transmitted to herchildren. Both of the daughters carried this weakness even further thantheir mother did, and she was injudicious enough to indulge them. As anatural consequence the children accumulated an unhealthy quantity offat, and, of course, became victims of indigestion. Anne was a regularrolly-poly as a child; but as there is a separate chapter devoted toher we must confine the present story, as much as possible, to the eldersister.
Ladies Mary and Anne pursued their education under the direction of LadyFrances Villiers, daughter of the Earl of Suffolk and wife of Sir EdwardVilliers. This-lady had six daughters of her own, and must have had herhands full with the care of eight girls. She lived with them at the oldpalace at Richmond, where Queen Elizabeth died, and her daughters grewup with the princesses, and formed a connection that lasted throughlife. Being deprived of their mother when they were, respectively, sixand nine years of age, Mary and Anne naturally clung to the companionswho shared their education and to the lady who superintended it.
[[A.D. 1671.]] When the Duchess of York died she left four children, twoof whom were sons; but they followed her to the grave within the year.By that time the succession of the Princess Mary to the throne ofEngland began to assume an air of probability, because, as we have said,no children were born to Charles II. The duchess had become a convert toCatholicism, and not very long after her death the duke was suspected ofhaving likewise joined that faith. This made him so unpopular that theservices he had performed for his country were all forgotten, and hismarriage, rather more than two years afterwards, with the CatholicPrincess of Modena, only served to increase the censure he had drawndown on his own head. Fearing that his nieces might be influencedby their father's faith, King Charles undertook the supervision of theireducation himself, and engaged Henry Compton, Bishop of London, fortheir preceptor. This man had been a soldier until he was thirty yearsold, when he became a clergyman, and was rapidly promoted on account ofthe loyalty of his family. Compton was good enough as a man, but by nomeans a well-informed one, consequently the princesses were not taughtas they ought to have been. People who have not had advantages ofeducation themselves often know its importance; but this does not seemto have been the case with Compton, for his pupils were allowed to studyor not, just as their fancy dictated. The consequence was that the eldersister, having inherited the literary tastes of her parents, studiedbecause it pleased her to do so; while Lady Anne grew up an ignoramusbecause she did not so please. If the governess, Lady Frances Villiers,had done her duty faithfully, this would not have been the case; but hertastes lay in a different direction.
Peter de Laine was the French professor of the princesses, and made LadyMary so perfect a mistress of that language that she wrote it betterthan her native tongue. Mr. and Mrs. Gibson gave instruction in drawing.They were a pair of dwarfs, neither being more than three feet sixinches in height, and were considered among the best English artists ofthe day. This little couple had nine full-grown children, and lived to agood old age.
The ladies Mary and Anne continued to live at Richmond with LadyVilliers and her daughters after their mother's death, and were veryreligiously trained according to the requirements of the Church ofEngland. One day in the year the Duke of York's entire family alwaysobserved as one of deep sorrow, fasting, and prayer; it was thethirtieth of January, memorable as having been the date of Charles I.'sexecution. Each year all matters of business or pleasure were laid asideon that day, and the family appeared in deep mourning garments.
[[A.D. 1674.]] Mrs. Betterton, the principal actress at the King'sTheatre, was engaged to teach the royal sisters a ballet, which theyperformed at court, and the lessons she also imparted in elocutionproved of great service when, as queens, they had speeches to make. Boththe princesses were attractive in personal appearance, though they didnot resemble each other; for Lady Mary was a Stuart in looks, tall,graceful, slender, with a clear complexion, dark eyes and hair, whileAnne had her mother's round face and plump figure. Her hair was darkbrown, complexion ruddy, features clear cut and regular, and she hadbeautiful hands and arms. Being somewhat near-sighted, Princess Anne hada drawn look about the eyes that detracted from her beauty. Perhaps itwas this defect that prevented her studying as much as she ought tohave done; but certain it is that she never opened a book when she couldavoid it; but she was a good musician and played well on the guitar. Ata very early age Anne excelled in card-playing, and, I regret to add,gossip. But this was the fault of King Charles's court, at which boththe princesses were introduced when they ought to have been still atschool. Lady Mary played cards as well as her sister, and for very highstakes, but, what was worse, she employed Sunday evenings as well asthose of the week in this frivolous manner. Nobody tried to correct thisbad habit, because gambling was the chief pastime at the English court,and had been so since the time of Henry VIII.
[[A.D. 1677.]] When Lady Mary was fifteen years old King Charles and hiscouncillors began to look about for a husband for her, and decided thather cousin, William Henry, Prince of Orange, would be the bestperson for her to marry. Then that young man was first consulted onthe subject; his mind was so filled with war and exploits on thebattle-field that he appeared indifferent almost to rudeness; but later,when he thought that the influence of his uncles, Charles II. and theDuke of York, might be of advantage in a political point of view,he went to England to see what his chances then might be with thepresumptive heiress, Mary. This prince was the son of King Charles'ssister Mary, who died when her boy was nine years of age, and left himto the care of his grandmother, his father having been killed at seabefore he was born. He was an undersized, delicate boy of nineteen thefirst time he went to England to claim the protection of his uncles, whomade some plans by which he was secured the Stadt-holdership of Holland.That was in 1670; he was twenty-six when he returned on his matrimonialexpedition, and not much improved either in health or appearance. PrinceWilliam had a little plan of his own which prevented his discussing hisaffairs in a straightforward manner at his first interview with KingCharles. He was at war with France, and felt no desire to make peaceunless forced to do so. Should he wed the Princess of England, hecounted on assistance from her father to pursue hostilities, but hewould not commit himself until he had seen the lady; for although he wasby no means good-looking himself, he was determined to have a handsomewife.
He was so well pleased with the Princess Mary that after hisintroduction to her by King Charles, he immediately asked her hand inmarriage. It was granted on condition that the terms of a peace withFrance should first be agreed upon. The prince excused himself, anddeclared "that he must end his marriage before he began his peacetreaty;" then added "that his allies would be apt to believe thathe had made his match at their cost, and for his part, he would neversell his honor for a wife."
But the king remained obstinate for three or four days; then Sir WilliamTemple sought his presence and repeated this message sent to his majestyby the Prince of Orange, who was in a very bad humor. It was: "That herepented ever coming to England, and that after two days he would goback home if the king continued in the mind he was of treating of thepeace before his marriage, and that the king must choose whether theywere to live afterwards as the greatest friends or the greatest enemies,for it must be one or the other."
The easy-going Charles, who was always for letting everybody have hisown way, replied: "Well, I never yet was deceived in judging of a man'shonesty by his looks; and if I am not deceived in the prince's face, heis the honestest man in the world. I will trust him--he _shall_ havehis wife. You go, Sir William Temple, and tell my brother that I haveresolved it shall be so."
The Duke of York was surprised at the suddenness of the message, butreplied: "The king shall be obeyed, and I would be glad if all hissubjects would learn of me to obey him. I tell him my opinion veryfreely upon all things; but when I know his positive pleasure on a pointI obey."
The Prince of Orange was delighted at his uncle Charles's decision, andthat very evening the match was announced at the cabinet council. Afterhaving dined at Whitehall Palace, the Duke of York returned to St.James's, where he was then living with his family, and leading hisdaughter Mary into a private room, told her how it was arranged that shewas to marry Prince William of Orange. The poor girl burst into tearsand felt very unhappy, but no one cared anything about that; andalthough her heart was very heavy she had to stand by her betrothedfor several succeeding days to receive deputations from the cityofficials, law students, commercial companies, and others who came tooffer congratulations. A grand banquet was given by the citizens ofLondon to evince their pleasure at this Protestant marriage, and on thesame day the Princess Mary, with her sister Anne, and her stepmother,Mary of Modena, sat under a canopy of state and witnessed a fineprocession.
The marriage was solemnized on the fourth of November in the bride'sbed-chamber at St. James's Palace, only the members of the royal familybeing present. King Charles tried to draw attention from his niece'sexcessive sadness by rollicking gayety, quite out of place on so solemnan occasion; and when the Prince of Orange endowed his bride with allhis earthly goods, placing a handful of gold and silver coins on theopen book, the king told his niece "to gather it up and put it in herpocket, for't was all clear gain." After the ceremony the court andforeign ambassadors were admitted to offer congratulations. Next morningPrince William gave his bride a present of jewels to the amount of fortythousand pounds.
This marriage was very popular in Scotland, where, as well as inEngland, all the festivities and rejoicings customary on such occasionswere observed. The groom displayed great ill-humor when the duchess hada son born a couple of days later, because the little fellow would havehad the precedency over his wife in the succession, but, as we know, helived only a few weeks. It made Princess Mary no happier to find herselfunited to a surly man, and what added to her distress at this time wasthe illness of her sister Anne, who was suffering from small-pox, andcould neither be present at her wedding nor take leave of her when, aweek later, she departed for Holland. The


prince wanted to get his wife away from St. James's as soon aspossible lest she might catch the infection; but she would not leave herfather until the dreaded moment of sailing arrived. This made the groomso angry that everybody spoke of how cross and ugly he was, and themaids-of-honor of the queen called him the "Dutch monster," and otherhorrid names. He was angry with the wind, too, because it would continueto blow in the wrong direction, and keep him in England longer thanhe desired. Several people were lying dangerously ill at St. James'sPalace; two or three had died since the wedding; Anne continued too illto see her sister, and all was gloom and sorrow around the bride. Atlast, on the nineteenth of November, the wind changed, and the twopalaces of Whitehall and St. James were at once bustle and confusionwith preparations for the departure of the Princess of Orange and herhusband. At nine o'clock in the morning the bride bade farewell toher old home and went to Whitehall to embrace her royal aunt, QueenCatharine, whom she loved very dearly. It was then that the queen toldher to consider how much better her case was than her own, for when shecame from Portugal she had not even seen King Charles, and Mary repliedbetween her sobs: "But, madame, remember _you_ came _into_ England, I amgoing out of England." The king and the Duke of York, with a large partyof nobility and gentry, embarked-on the royal barges at Whitehall andaccompanied the Prince and Princess of Orange down the river to Erith,where they were to dine. Then Mary parted with her father and uncleand set sail for Holland, several English and Dutch men-of-war beingin attendance to conduct the royal yacht across the sea. If the Duke ofYork had known his son-in-law as well at that time as he did later, hewould have set a watch on his movements until he was well out of thekingdom; but an unfavorable shifting of the wind gave the ambitiousprince a chance of playing a mean trick on the duke, who on hearing thatthe Dutch fleet was detained at Sheerness, sent a messenger to invitethe bride and groom to pass the time at Whitehall. William declined, butwent ashore with his wife and became the guest of Colonel Dorrell, thegovernor. Next day they proceeded to Canterbury, accompanied by LadyInchiquin (one of the Villiers girls), a maid, and the prince's twofavorites, Bentinck and Odyke. Arriving at the inn, the prince appliedto the city authorities for a loan, saying that he had been sent awayfrom London in haste without a penny, because King Charles and the Dukeof York were so jealous of any favor shown him that they were afraid thelord mayor would give him a grand feast, and hurried him off to preventit. As we know the entertainment was given, and the prince and princess,as well as the rest of the royal family were present, of course thestatement was false, and by refusing the loan the corporation ofCanterbury showed very plainly that they considered it so. But DoctorTillotson, the Dean of Canterbury, gathered together all the plate andready money he could command, and hastened with them to the inn, wherehe requested an interview with Mr. Bentinck, and not only placed all hiswealth at the disposal of the prince, but offered him an asylum at thedeanery, a more proper stopping-place for one of his rank than a commoninn. The money and plate were accepted, but the offer of hospitalitywas declined. Now, it was perfectly useless for Prince William to demandmoney from any one but his uncles, who would have supplied him withouthesitation. Besides, as the first instalment of Princess Mary's portionof forty thousand pounds had been paid, his credit was perfectly good inLondon, and the prime minister, Danby, would not have been applied toin vain. But the prince was so angry on account of the birth of hislittle brother-in-law that he wanted to appear in the light of a veryill-used person, and this game was a bold political stroke to obtainpartisans before leaving the country. And he succeeded, for Dr.Tillotson became a serviceable friend, who corresponded with the princeand Mr. Bentinck, and gave them some valuable information for which hewas made an archbishop a few years later. Four days the Prince of Orangedevoted to courting favor with the people of Kent, and then set sail onboard the "Montague" at Margate.
The princess was accompanied by Lady Inchiquin and her two sisters,Elizabeth and Anne Villiers, whose mother had died just after they badeher adieu at Richmond Palace. These were ladies-of-honor, and there wasstill another, named Mary Worth. After a very stormy passage, duringwhich everybody was sea-sick excepting Princess Mary, the royal fleetarrived at Tethudo, a town on the Holland coast, and their majestiesproceeded to Hounslardyke Palace. The preparations for their receptionwent forward so slowly that they could not make their public entry intothe Hague until the end of a fortnight, but everything was arranged withgreat magnificence. The bridge at the entrance of the town was festoonedwith garlands of flowers, surrounding appropriate Latin inscriptions,and twelve companies of soldiers were drawn up in line on either side.Twenty-four virgins, in gay costumes, walked two and two on either sideof their highnesses' coach, strewing fresh flowers and evergreens in thepath all the way. In front of the town hall was a triumphal arch hungwith banners, ferns, and gay ribbons, displaying the crests of theprince and princess side by side, and over them two hands holding aLatin motto, which, rendered into English, read thus:--
               "What Halcyon airs this royal Hymen sings,
               The Olive branch of peace her dower she brings."
The royal cortège passed beneath this arch on to Hoog-straet, whereanother bore this inscription:--
               "To the Batavian court, with Heaven's best smile,
               Approach fair guest, and bless this happy pile."
And so with a fine display of loyalty from their subjects, that greetedtheir eyes and ears at every turn,--for there was music, the beating ofdrums, and ringing of bells besides,--the royal pair passed through theprincipal streets to their palace.
That evening there were brilliant fireworks representing, in turn, St.George on horseback, fountains, pyramids, enormous castles, chariotscontaining the gods descending from the skies in a blaze of fire,flower-pots, animals, and a variety of novel devices. The followingday all the "Herrs" of note called to pay their respects, but it is notnecessary for us to recall the long unpronounceable names. The usualcelebrations followed, and after that Princess Mary resorted to her oldpropensity for gambling, in which she was encouraged by her husband, whocarried this vice further than she did.
Not long after the arrival of the Princess of Orange, as we must callher now, the Archbishop of Canterbury recommended Dr. Hooper for heralmoner and chaplain. On his arrival in Holland he found the princesswithout a chapel or a room of any kind that could be put to that use,except the dining-room. This she willingly relinquished, because she andthe prince never took their meals together, and for the sake of obligingDr. Hooper she was willing to dine in a small, dark parlor, which,though not very comfortable, answered the purpose. Dr. Hooper wasordered to fit up the chapel; but so alarmed was the princess lestshe might suffer from having incurred her lord's displeasure, that sheinsisted upon the almoner's being present on a certain afternoon, whenhis majesty was


to inspect the arrangements, to bear part of the brunt of hisill-nature. The first thing he did on entering the chapel was to turn uphis nose contemptuously, kick over the chair placed on the steps of thedias tor his wife, and ask roughly for whom it was intended. Then heinquired the use of each article that struck his notice, and with anemphatic "Hum!" left the chapel, which he entered only once or twiceafter that. The princess attended every day, taking great pains not tomake the chaplain wait. The prince had given his wife certain religiousbooks to read, which Dr. Hooper replaced with those he preferred forher. This excited the prince's displeasure, and one day on findingher deeply interested in a work not in accordance with his belief, hestormed furiously, and said: "What!--will you read such books? I supposeit is Dr. Hooper persuades you to do it."
While the Princess of Orange was under the good influence of Dr. Hooper,her sister Anne had established her little court at St. James's, andpassed most of her time gambling and gossiping. Her most intimate friendwas Sarah Jennings, who, at the age of fifteen, had secretly married thehandsome Colonel Churchill, the Duke of York's favorite gentleman. Thislady afterwards became the Duchess of Marlborough, a very importantpersonage in the political world. Her tastes were similar to those ofthe Princess Anne, over whom she had a very baneful influence. BarbaraVilliers, now Mrs. Berkley, third daughter of her late governess, wasAnne's first lady-inwaiting; thus we see four of the ladies of thisfamily in direct attendance upon the two princesses who later occupiedthe British throne.
But to return to Holland. At the Hague the Princess of Orange foundthree beautiful palaces. One was called "the Hague," a splendid Gothicstructure, where all the business of state was transacted. Marynever went there, excepting, on occasions of great ceremony. Abouta mile from this castle stood the palace in the wood, surrounded bystately oaks and one of the most beautiful gardens in the whole ofEurope. That was the home of the Princess of Orange. A long avenueformed by two rows of wide-spreading trees, whose branches met andformed a canopy overhead, led to the main door of the palace, and clean,freshly gravelled walks wound in and out to the utmost limit of thewell-kept grounds. Not far off was a dower palace, called the Old Court.A paved walk, also bordered with fine old trees, trimmed in the shape ofpyramids, led from the Hague to the seaport of Scheveling; and, as thiswas open to the public, every passenger had to pay a small toll to keepit in good order.
But the English attendants who had accompanied the princess wantedsomething besides a beautiful residence; they were not pleased withtheir new home, and longed for England and the old scenes and old facesthey had left behind them. The princess was fortunate in having heruncle, Lord Clarendon, with her. He was ambassador at the Hague when shefirst arrived; and, as her husband was called away shortly after, it wasmost agreeable to have her uncle's protection.
[[A.D. 1678.]] The Prince of Orange returned from hunting one day, andafter reading a few letters announced his intention to proceed at onceto France. The princess accompanied her husband as far as Rotterdam, andthen bade him farewell.
During his absence the princess made a tour of her dominions, movingfrom place to place in her barge by canal. While travelling in thisprimitive manner, the ladies of the court amused themselves withneedlework or card-playing; and when Princess Mary sewed, Dr. Hooperwould read


from some serious work. Although not seventeen years of age at thattime, the princess managed her ladies remarkably well. She never showedmore favor to one than another; insisted on the observance of everypoint of etiquette, and exercised so much authority that a look from herwas sufficient to put a stop to any conversation that did not meet withher approval. Some years later Dr. Hooper paid her the complimentof saying, "that during the entire time of his sojourn in herhousehold,--over a year and a half,--he never heard her say or saw herdo one thing that he could have wished she had not said or done."
The climate of Holland did not agree with the princess, and she had adangerous attack of malarial fever the following summer, from which shedid not entirely recover for many weeks. With the hope of cheering herand accelerating her convalescence, the Duke of York sent his wife andhis daughter Anne to visit her. Princess Mary was beside herself withjoy, for she had not seen her sister since her marriage, and she hadalways been the best of friends with her stepmother. The Duchess of Yorkcalled her "the Lemon," and her husband "the Orange": and most of herletters to Mary before the revolution began "My dear Lemon."
[[A.D. 1679.]] The following year the Duke of York was banished fromEngland on account of his religion, and went to visit his daughter inHolland, who treated him with the most tender affection. Her health wasnot then entirely restored, for she still suffered from attacks of ague,and was ordered to try the climate of Dieren, where her husband owneda hunting palace. The change did her a great deal of good, and shereturned to the Palace of the Wood in time to see Dr. Hooper go backto England to marry a lady to whom he had been engaged for many months.Mary was very much alarmed lest she should lose the services of heralmoner, and begged him to prevail upon his lady to come to Holland. Hepromised to do his best and succeeded; but it was very mortifying to theprincess that she was unable to extend her hospitality to Mrs. Hooper.The doctor had always taken his meals with the ladies of the bed-chamberand the maids-of-honor of the princess, and his wife was invited to dothe same.
But knowing, as everybody did, that Prince William was too stingy tobe willing to feed one person more than he was actually obliged to, Dr.Hooper never allowed his wife to eat at the palace, but took his mealswith her at their lodging-house, not far away. Fortunately he was a manof means, for as he received only a few pounds from Prince Williamfor all his services at the Dutch court he could not otherwise havesubsisted.
The Princess Mary had another visit from her sister Anne, when she waspermitted by King Charles to join her father during his banishment; andthe whole family of the Duke of York spent some time together in Hollandon the most amicable terms. At that period Mary did not know how herhusband was intriguing with such men as Sunderland, Oates, and Bedloe,who were mixed up in the popish plot, for the purpose of depriving herfather of his succession, and bringing on her native land the curse ofcivil war. She would have been horrified at such an idea.
Princess Mary was not happily married, for her husband was so cross anddisagreeable that it was impossible for her to love him. Her life wasalmost one of imprisonment, because, although she was condescensionitself to the wives of the burgomasters and other ladies, she never lostsight of her own high birth sufficiently to permit of any intimacy orexchange of visits; consequently she was confined to the narrow circleof her own court, which was very tiresome to a woman accustomed toall the pomp, grandeur, and gayety of royal life in England.
One thing that interested her was the building of a palace by herhusband at Loo. She laid the corner-stone with all the ceremony thatusually attends such a performance, and planned the decorations of thebuilding as well as the laying out of the gardens and walks. After thepalace was completed, Princess Mary occupied apartments that were called"the queen's suite" forever after, though when she became Queen ofEngland she ceased to live in Holland, and never even visited there.Under the windows of this suite was "the queen's garden," in the centreof which was a splendid large fountain. This garden opened througha hedge into another adorned with a number of fine statues. Then theprincess had a poultry-yard, where she raised a fine breed of fowlsthat she was fond of tending, feeding, and watching,--an amusement thatserved to pass away many a tedious hour.
[[A.D. 1680.]] Beyond the park was an immense aqueduct that supplied allthe fountains and the fish-pond, as well as the means for irrigating;then there were further on long shady walks that terminated in a grove,where Mary often went to enjoy an hour's solitude, or perhaps to weepover her forlorn situation. She read, embroidered, and continued herdrawing-lessons with Gibson, the dwarf master, who had followed her toHolland but had scarcely any society besides her maids-of-honor and hergood nurse, Mrs. Langford, whose husband was one of her chaplains. Allher English attendants were heartily detested by the prince, who managedto get rid of as many of them as possible and replace them with hisDutch subjects, who were, in most instances, by no means agreeable toMary.
[[A.D. 1684.]] Year by year William of Orange imposed so many acts ofcruelty on his wife that at last she was almost afraid to expressher opinion on any subject, and by the grossest misrepresentationshe turned her heart from her own family, and in every possible wayencouraged an intimacy between her and the Duke of Monmouth while he wasan exile from England. This was before the Duke of York had ascended thethrone. Charles II. had banished Monmouth from his realm; and William'sobject in being so friendly with him was, that in this enemy of the Dukeof York he knew he should find a powerful ally who would further anyplan of his, no matter how unscrupulous, by which he meant to preventJames from assuming the crown and usurp his place. The banished dukemust have exerted a powerful influence over the mind of the princess insome mysterious way, otherwise it is hard to understand how she couldconsent to show marks of favor to a man who calumniated her own father.But she was sadly changed by this time, and all the affection she hadonce entertained for her parents had vanished. She went constantly tohear political sermons preached against her father, who was accused ofdreadful crimes, that, whether true or false, should never have beenpronounced within the hearing of his daughter. Her life that had been somonotonous became gay in the extreme after the appearance of Monmouthat the Hague; and she danced, flirted, and promenaded with him in a mostundignified manner. Her father heard of this conduct, and remonstratedwith the princess. She shed tears over his letter, but said, "that theprince was her master and would be obeyed." This was partly true, nodoubt; but after being shut up as she had been for several years, shewent to the other extreme, and enjoyed the gayety that her husbandpermitted her to indulge in while he was using her as a tool tofurther his intrigues with Monmouth. She is certainly to blame for herundignified behavior, but still more for the disrespect she showedher father, who had always been most kind and indulgent to her. In oneof his fault-finding letters he wrote his daughter to warn her husbandagainst Monmouth, who, in the event of King Charles's death and hisown, would, he assured her, give them a struggle before they could getpossession of the throne of Great Britain. Thus we see that James knewMonmouth was not to be trusted, though suspicion with regard to hisson-in-law had not yet entered his head.
It was not long after the marriage of Mary that King Charles began tothink about a husband for his other niece, the Princess Anne. Severalcandidates for her hand were duly presented and considered, but at lastthe choice fell on Prince George of Denmark, brother to King Christianof that country. He was a valiant soldier, and had distinguished himselfin several battles with the Swedes, during which he had rescued hisbrother, the king, from the enemy by his wonderful dash and presence ofmind. He and the Princess Anne were married in 1683; and their nuptials,unlike those of Mary and the Prince of Orange, were conducted with greatpomp, and succeeded by the usual celebrations. King Charles settled onthe bride an income of twenty thousand pounds per annum, and presentedher with a small palace adjoining Whitehall for her residence, for itwas arranged that she was not to go to Denmark to live.
[[A.D. 1685.]] We have spoken of the gay doings at the Holland court,but they were not to continue long; for suddenly everything was changedto mourning on the announcement of the death of King Charles II. ofEngland. Princess Mary was very much grieved on account of this sadevent, for all her remembrances of her uncle were of the most agreeablenature. The Duke of Monmouth and Prince William were closeted togetherfor several hours after the news came, and that very night the dukestarted for England.

But so secretly were his preparations and departure made that he wassupposed to be shut up in his own room until late on the following clay.It was the prince who furnished him with money for the rash invasion ofEngland which resulted in his execution. The details of his bold exploitare given in the last reign.
After James was firmly seated on the throne, it would never do tor thePrince of Orange to appear in the light of an enemy, so he had tochange his tactics forthwith. He pretended that the affectionate lettersto his wife from her father were addressed to himself, and read themaloud to the ambassadors. To the king he wrote in the most humble terms,promising fidelity till death, and explaining that Monmouth had receivedonly common hospitality at his hands, and been sent away-from the Hagueas soon as possible.
Certainly James II. regretted the necessity which compelled him to putMonmouth to death, but Princess Mary had formed such an attachment forhim that she never forgave her father for causing that execution.
[[A.D. 1686.]] During the following spring a plot against the life ofPrince William was revealed to the princess, and she became so alarmedthat she obtained for him a bodyguard, which had not previously beenconsidered at all necessary.
Then William Penn was sent by James II. to convince the prince that alllaws tending to religious persecutions ought to be abolished; but hiserrand was a failure, because the prince declared "that he would loseall the revenues and prospects of the kingdom of Great Britain, to whichhis wife was heiress, before one should be abolished." And the princessindorsed this decision, adding: "That if ever she were Queen of Englandshe should do more for the Protestants than even Queen Elizabeth haddone."
Penn spoke so plainly to the princess, and expressed his opinion sofreely, that she disliked him forever after.
[[A.D. 1688.]] The Prince and Princess of Orange had their spies inEngland, who kept them daily informed of every change in the politicaldrama. Of these Lord and Lady Sunderland were the principal agents, andas this lord was prime minister he had special facilities for gainingknowledge. Another was the Princess Anne whose letters wereremarkable for coarseness, vulgarity, and bad spelling. As she did notknow of the bond existing between Lady Sunderland and her sister Mary,she sometimes filled her letters with abuse of that person, on whom shedid not hesitate to bestow some very hard epithets. Her remarks mustoften have amused both William and Mary, who were better aware of whatwas going on in Great Britain than she was, although they were not onthe spot. One of Anne's letters closes with this sentence: "One thing Iforgot to tell you about Lord Sunderland, which is that it is thoughtif everything does not go here as he would have it, that he will picka quarrel with the court and so retire, and possibly make his court toyou."
This shows that the princess little suspected Lord Sunderland of alreadybeing in the service of William. She had reasons of her own for tryingto create ill-feeling between Mary and her father; and once when theprincess had hinted at the possibility of her visiting England, Annewarned her in rather vague terms that her life might be in danger wereshe to present herself at her father's court.
If Mary had considered how kind and indulgent that father had alwaysbeen to his children, she would have insisted on an explanation; but thecorrespondence between these two sisters was interrupted for awhileby Anne's illness. The king watched by her bedside until she was pastdanger, and nursed her with the most tender care. What would have beenhis feelings, could he have known the treachery of the invalid atwhose side he sat hour after hour, anxiously awaiting the result of herdisease?
Shortly after her recovery, Princess Anne asked permission of her fatherto spend a few weeks at the Hague. The Prince of Denmark, her husband,was going on a visit to his native land, and it was his wife's plan thatshe should be conducted by him to her sister's court, there to remainuntil his return. Her confidential friend, Lady Churchill, was toaccompany her. But King James had begun to see something of the parthis children were playing against him, and peremptorily refused to allowAnne to leave England. In a fit of temper at being thus opposed sheretired to Bath, where she remained until after the birth of herbrother, whose appearance in the world was most unwelcome to both herand Mary of Orange.
Meanwhile affairs had taken such a turn that King James's downfall wasrapidly approaching. His adherence to the Catholic cause deprived him ofsupport from the Reformed church, and obliged some of the best and mostloyal of his subjects to stand by and witness his ruin, though withintense pain, because they were unable to stir hand or foot in hisbehalf.
Lord Clarendon, who had by this time returned to London from theHague, was one of these. It will be remembered that he was King James'sbrother-in law, and a warm friendship had always existed between thetwo men. It was most painful to him to observe the indifference of Annetowards her father, particularly when reports reached England that thePrince of Orange was coming over with an army to invade the country.Clarendon questioned the princess to find out how much she knew of thematter, but could get very little satisfaction, for she evaded him asmuch as possible, and pretended to have no information but that whichher husband had received from the king himself. After several vainattempts to induce his niece to speak to her father and endeavorto console him,--for he had sunken into a most painful state ofmelancholy,--Lord Clarendon begged her at least to urge the king toconsult with some of his old friends, each and all of whom were warmlyattached to him. But this unnatural daughter put him off, and preferredto increase her father's anguish. One day in October there was aroyal levee at Whitehall. The king was in a painfully depressed stateof mind, and told Lord Clarendon that the Prince of Orange had embarkedwith his Dutch troops, and only awaited a favorable wind to sail,adding, "I have nothing by this day's post from my daughter Mary; and itis the first time I have missed hearing from her for a long while."
The unfortunate father never heard from her again.
Lord Clarendon made another attempt to induce Anne to save her father,which she might have done if she had chosen; but she did not, andtreated every proposition with disgusting levity.
Louis XIV. offered to intercept the Dutch fleet; but James declined hisaid, because of the confidence he felt in his daughter Mary. Her lastletter assured him that the prince's fleet was made ready to repel anattack of the French, which was hourly expected; and the fond, confidingfather believed her.
It was Dr. Burnet, a well-known author and minister, who undertookto explain to the Princess of Orange all the details of the politicalsituation; and after the prince decided to get possession of the throneof Great Britain, he asked her what would be her husband's position, shebeing the heir and not he.
She replied that she had not considered that point, but would be obligedto him if he would tell her. Burnet, who was evidently acting in theinterest of the prince, replied, "That she must be contented as a wifeto engage in her husband's interest and give him the real authority assoon as it came into her hands." Mary consented, and asked the doctor tobring the prince to her that she might assure him of her submissionto his will. William was hunting that day; but on the morrow, afterinforming him of the conversation with the princess, Burnet conductedhim to her presence. Mary told him that she was surprised to hearfrom the doctor how, by the laws of England, a husband could be madesubservient to his wife, providing the title of king came to him throughher; and added a solemn promise that she should always be obedient tohim, and that _he_ should rule, not she. It seems surprising that sofaithless a daughter should have been so dutiful a wife; but the princehad broken her spirit by his frequent acts of cruelty and neglect, andshe was as submissive as a whipped cur.
Instead of thanking his wife, William treated her decision as a matterof course, and merely answered with a grunt of satisfaction, giving Dr.Burnet great credit for the persuasive eloquence that had brought aboutso favorable a result.
In October the Prince of Orange sailed with a fleet of fifty-two shipsof war; and, after a very stormy voyage, landed at an English village onthe anniversary of the Gunpowder Plot.
Meeting with no opposition, he marched four miles into Devonshire,followed by his entire force. The prince knew what a risk he was taking,and waited with breathless anxiety to see how many of the west ofEngland people would flock to his standard.
He published a declaration that the Prince of Wales was not the realchild of James II.; but that a strange baby had been adopted to imposeon the British nation, who was to rule them as a Roman Catholic. Thiswas done to prevent the country from educating the prince accordingto the doctrines of the Church of England, which would probably haveestablished his succession. Of course a child upon whose birth any doubtwas cast could never rule as a Catholic, nor be educated by the statefor any purpose; therefore the daughters of James II. pretended tobelieve the falsehood, knowing that in the event of the prince'saccession they would stand no chance of ever wearing the crown.
News arrived in London that Lord Cornbury, eldest son of the Earl ofClarendon, had deserted the king's army with three regiments, and goneover to the enemy. Clarendon was overcome with grief and shame at suchconduct on the part of one of his flesh and blood. When Princess Annesaw him she asked why he had not been to see her for several days. Hereplied, "that he was so much concerned for the villany his son hadcommitted that he was ashamed of being seen anywhere."
"Oh," replied the princess, "people are so apprehensive of popery thatyou will find many more of the army will do the same."
And she was right; for desertions became of daily occurrence, andKing James was surrounded by traitors on all sides. Anne knew of LordCornbury's intended desertion, and was anxiously awaiting news from herhusband, who, with a display of affection and sincerity, had gone offwith her father to assist in defending him against the Prince of Orange.Lord Churchill and Sir George Hewett were with the king also; and thesetwo were concerned in a plot against the life of their sovereign, whichthe latter confessed on his deathbed some years later.
Every time the king heard that one of his officers had gone over tothe enemy, Prince George of Denmark would raise his eyes and hands withaffected surprise, and exclaim, "Is it possible!" At last, after suppingwith the king and speaking in terms of abhorrence of all deserters, theprince, Churchill, and Hewett, taking advantage of an attack of illnessthat had suddenly seized their sovereign, went off in the night to thehostile camp. When informed of it, James exclaimed: "How? Has 'Is ItPossible' gone off, too?" Yet this departure was a cruel blow tothe father, who said: "After all, I only mind his conduct as connectedwith my child; otherwise the loss of a stout trooper would have beengreater."
In expectation of her husband's desertion, Anne had made arrangementsfor her own flight; and no sooner did the news reach her that he hadgone than she followed. It was Sunday night, and the princess retired toher room at the usual hour. Mrs. Danvers, the lady-in-waiting, was notin the secret, and went to bed as usual in the ante-chamber. LadiesFitzharding and Churchill had entered Princess Anne's room early in theevening, and hidden themselves by agreement in her dressing-room. Atmidnight, accompanied by these two women, the princess stole out ofthe palace, and met Lord Dorset in St. James's Park. A coach stood inwaiting a little distance off; but the rain poured in torrents, and themud was so deep that Anne lost one of her shoes in a puddle, from whichthere was neither time nor inclination to extricate it. This littleaccident was treated as a joke by the adventurers, who laughed heartily,while Lord Dorset gallantly stuck the princess's foot into one of thekid gauntlets he had pulled off; and assisted her to hop forward to thecarriage. The party drove to the Bishop of London's house, where theywere refreshed and the princess supplied with shoes, and started bydaybreak for Lord Dorset's castle in Waltham Forest.
After a few hours' rest they proceeded to Nottingham, where the Earl ofNorthampton, attired in military uniform, raised a purple standard inthe name of the laws and liberties of England, and invited the people togather around the Protestant heiress to the throne. Afterwards Anne wenton to Warwick, where there was a project on foot for the exterminationof all the papists in England. Although the princess knew that herfather's head would be the first to fall should such a plan becarried into effect, she was so unnatural as to favor it.
A tremendous uproar was raised when Anne's women-in-waiting entered herroom the morning after her flight and found her bed undisturbed andthe princess herself missing. Before many minutes the whole court wasaroused with the lamentations of the people, who declared that theprincess had been murdered by the queen's priests. The storm rose tosuch a height that a mob collected in the street and swore that thepalace should be pulled down, and Mary Beatrice pulled to pieces ifAnne were not forthcoming. No doubt the threat would have been putinto execution had it not been for the discovery of a letter which themissing princess had left lying on her toilet-table, stating that shehad gone off to avoid the king's displeasure on account of her husband'sdesertion; and that she should remain away until a reconciliation hadbeen effected. "Never was any one," she wrote, "in such an unhappycondition, so divided between duty to a father and a husband; andtherefore I know not what I must do but to follow one to preserve theother." This would be all very well if she had been dutiful to herfather; but as she had only one week before informed Orange by letterthat her husband would soon be with him, ready to serve his cause to theutmost, we can only feel intense disgust at such deception 



CHAPTER XI.
|James II. arrived in London just after the excitement caused by Anne'sescape had subsided. He had been obliged to leave his army on accountof illness, and when he heard of his daughter's conduct, he struck hisbreast and exclaimed: "God help me! my own children have forsaken me inmy distress." From that moment he lost heart and ceased to struggle toretain his crown; but he never censured Anne as he might have done, norwas he aware of the extent of her treachery.
Meanwhile, the Prince of Orange induced many of the most loyal subjectsof the crown to join him by circulating the report that he had come toEngland for the sole purpose of establishing peace between James II.and his people. So he advanced as far as Henley, and while resting thereheard, to his unspeakable joy, that the king had disbanded his army, andfollowed his wife, who, with the Prince of Wales, had escaped to France.They could not more completely have played into his hand.
Prince George of Denmark waited for his wife at Oxford, which placeshe entered with military state, escorted by several thousand mountedgentlemen, who, with their tenants, had joined her followers as shepassed through the various counties. Bishop Compton, Anne's early tutor,rode before her in military dress, and carried a purple flag in token ofhis adherence to her cause. James had been captured and taken backto Whitehall, so William of Orange stopped at Windsor and sent his Dutchguard forward to expel his uncle; for neither he nor his sister-in-lawdared to face the father whom they had so basely injured. The next daythe prince entered London quietly, went straight to St. James's Palace,and retired to his bedchamber. In the evening bells rang, guns fired,and there was general rejoicing among the Orange party. A few days laterthe Prince and Princess of Denmark returned, and took up their abodeat the palace they had lived in ever since their marriage, called theCockpit, because the site of it had once been used for that barbarousamusement.
[[A.D. 1689.]] Anne felt no regret at the fate that had overtakenher unfortunate father, but triumphantly appeared in public with LadyChurchill, both decked in orange ribbons, an emblem of the cause theyhad espoused. Her uncle, Lord Clarendon, took her severely to task fornot showing some concern on account of her father's downfall, but sheproved very plainly that she felt none; but it was not many weeks beforeshe regretted having taken sides with William. This was not because ofany qualms of conscience, or awakening of affection for her parent,--no,indeed! It was only that her interests were at stake, and her rights indanger of being forfeited. A convention had been called to arrange howthe kingdom was to be governed, and as leader of a well-disciplined armyof fourteen thousand foreign soldiers, quartered in and about London,the Prince of Orange was likely to have the matter settled just as hechose. The convention were perplexed, however; for though they decidedto exclude the Prince of Wales and settle the succession on Mary ofOrange, they were by no means willing, in the event of her death, tohave the kingdom governed by a foreigner, particularly as his religion


was as far removed from that of the Church of England as James'swas.
While they were considering this matter William was so taciturn andglum that the English lords could not find out what he wanted, so theyapplied to some of his Dutch attendants to know what ailed their master,and were informed that if Princess Mary was to occupy the throne andtake precedence of her husband he would go back to Holland; for hewas not willing to be tied by apron strings, or to play the part ofgentleman-usher to his own wife. The English nobles were more perplexedthan ever; but at this juncture Dr. Burnet came to their relief, andsaid, that as Mary's spiritual adviser he was well aware of how shewould decide if the matter were left to her, because she had told himthat she preferred yielding precedence to her husband in every affair oflife. Then word was sent to the Princess Mary, "that if she consideredit proper to insist on her lineal rights the convention would persistin declaring her sole sovereign." Her answer was: "That she was theprince's wife, and never meant to be other than in subjection to him,and that she did not thank any one for setting up for her an interestdivided from that of her husband." That settled the matter; for thenational convention of lords and commons decided that the Prince ofOrange was to be offered the crown, and that his wife was to have jointsovereignty. Their children, if they had any, were to succeed them, butif not the Princess Anne was next in the line.
Being satisfied at last, William permitted his wife to join him inEngland. The Princess of Orange had made herself beloved in Holland, andtears filled her eyes when she heard one of the common people say, asshe was embarking, "that he hoped the English might love her as well asthose had done whom she was leaving." A swift, pleasant voyage soonbrought Princess Mary to Gravesend, where she was met by her sisterand Prince George of Denmark. The two sisters were so elated at theirsuccess that they embraced again and again, and went into perfecttransports of joy. Amidst a chorus of shouts and welcomes they enteredtheir exiled father's barge, and soon landed at Whitehall, where Williammet them. All those who witnessed Mary's conduct that day, even her bestfriends, were shocked. Gravity would have been becoming considering thatshe was taking possession of the home from which reverse of fortune haddriven her father only a few days before; but she was excessively gay,and went all over the palace, looking into the cupboards, examining thefurniture, and making remarks upon what had been removed, and what leftfor her use with revolting heartlessness. She took possession of theapartments Mary Beatrice had used, slept in her bed, made use of hertoilet articles, and within a night or two sat down to a game of bassetin the very spot her predecessor had occupied.
Next day the ceremony of recognition of William and Mary as sovereignsof England took place. They proceeded in state robes to the banquetinghall of the palace, and placed themselves in chairs of state under theroyal canopy, their attendants taking their respective places nearby. Then Lord Halifax made a short speech, desiring their majesties toaccept the crown. The prince answered, and the princess curtsied, butshowed no reluctance at assuming her father's crown. After affixingtheir names to the Bill of Rights, which promised enjoyment of religiousliberty to every Protestant Englishman, William III. and Mary II. wereproclaimed king and queen.
Lord Clarendon was so disgusted with the turn of affairs that he retiredto his country seat, but he sent a letter to his niece, which musthave contained some unflattering remarks, for his wife, to whom heintrusted it, was afraid to deliver it. His brother Laurence had beencivilly received by William; but Mary had refused to see him or hischildren, little girls of seven and eight years, respectively.
After a few weeks of London life King William hurried his wife awaywith him to Hampton Court, and only went to town on business. He pleadedill-health as an excuse; but his conduct gave great dissatisfaction,because diversions that had attended previous courts disappeared, andthe king was so surly that people feared to approach him. The queen wasvivacious and affable, but as she took little or no interest in stateaffairs, nothing was to be gained by special attention to her, so fewgathered about her.
There were many loyal citizens who positively refused to take an oath ofallegiance to the new sovereigns. Among these were Lord Clarendon, fourof the bishops who had been sent to the Tower by James II., and severalhundred members of the English clergy, besides Archbishop San-croft,who it was fondly hoped would perform the coronation ceremony. Thatimportant event next occupied the attention of everybody at court. A newglobe, sceptre, and sword of state were made for Mary II., but she wasto wear the beautiful crown that her father had provided for his queen.
The eleventh of April was the day appointed; it was fraught with anxietyand care, for just as the king and queen were ready to set out forWestminster Hall news was brought to them of the successful landing ofJames II. in Ireland. Added to that, a letter was handed to Queen Maryby her lord chamberlain, which proved to be from her father,--thefirst he had written her since her arrival in England. He wrote: "Thathitherto he had made all fatherly excuses for what had been done, andhad attributed her part in the revolution to obedience to her husband;but the act of being crowned was in her own power, and if she werecrowned while he and the Prince of Wales were living, the curses ofan outraged father would light upon her as well as of that God who hascommanded duty to parents."
After reading this awful letter, William declared that he "had donenothing but by his wife's advice and approbation;" and she retorted,"That if her father regained his authority her husband might thankhimself for letting him go as he did." When these words were reportedto King James he felt convinced that his daughter Mary had desired somecruel act to be committed towards him.
Whether she had or no, she must have performed her part in thecoronation ceremony with a heavy heart, for with a father's curseresting upon her how could it have been otherwise!
As the clock struck twelve the king descended the stairs of Whitehall,entered the royal barge, and was rowed to Westminster Palace, where,in a private chamber, he dressed himself in the parliamentary robes. Anhour later the queen was carried in her sedan chair also to Westminster.She wore state robes of velvet, bordered with ermine; on her head was adiadem of gold, richly studded with precious stones. The processionwas much smaller than that attending any previous coronation had been,because so many of the lords and ladies refused to be present.
As soon as the usual ceremonies were completed, Dr. Burnet, who had beencreated Bishop of Salisbury, preached the sermon; then the Bishopof London administered the oath, and anointed both sovereigns. TheArchbishop of Canterbury had refused to crown either William or Mary, sothat office also was performed by the Bishop of London.
The banquet was given at Westminster Hall; but every- thing hadgone so slowly that it was almost dark before the challenger entered.This was Dymoke, son of the champion of James II. As he flung hisgauntlet upon the ground an old woman hobbled out from among the crowdthat stood to witness the feast, and replaced it with a lady's glove, inwhich was an answer to the challenge, the time and place being appointedin Hyde Park. From two till four the next day a large man was seen topace up and down the appointed spot; but Dymoke did not appear, and thechampion of James II., whoever he was, went on his way unharmed.
King William attended parliament both before and after his coronation;but never did Queen Mary accompany him or have any voice in thegovernment whatever.
After James II.'s defeat in Ireland, the Dutch ambassador arrived inEngland to congratulate the king and queen on their accession, whenrewards and honors were distributed very freely, especially on those whoheld positions in the household of either Mary or Anne. Lord Churchillreceived the title of Earl of Marlborough, and henceforth Anne'sconfidential friend will be known by the name of Lady Marlborough.
Now Princess Anne's displeasure was aroused because she failed to seeany gain that had accrued to her from the revolution. While others hadattained wealth and station, she had heard a rumor that King William hadexpressed his astonishment at her having a revenue of thirty thousandpounds per annum, and wondered how she could possibly spend it. Thisalarmed her, particularly as she had been promised an additional sumby her brother-in-law, which she soon saw there was no probability ofgetting. King William carried economy to such an excess that he objectedto Anne's having separate meals for her branch of the family; but hismanners at table were so disagreeable that no lady cared to bepresent when he ate. He was unpolished in every action, selfish, vulgar,and ill-natured in the extreme. One day a dish of early green peas wasplaced in front of Anne; they were the first of the season, and lookedparticularly inviting; but a look was all she got of them, for the kingtook possession of the dish and devoured the entire contents.
William was inhospitable, too, excepting to his own countrymen. Whenhe dined at St. James's Palace, Marshal Schomberg, the general of theforeign troops, sat at his right hand, and some Dutch officers occupiedother places at the table; but if any English nobleman came in Williamneither spoke to them nor invited them to sit down and eat, which commoncourtesy demanded. This was very galling, for it humbled the English andplaced the Dutch in the position of their conquerors.
The Earl of Marlborough had an aid-de-camp named Dillon, who wasintimate with Arnold von Keppel, a favorite page of King William. Theseboys were usually present at the royal dinners. One day Dillon said:"I have never heard your master utter a word to anybody; does he everspeak?"
"Oh, yes," replied von Keppel, "he talks fast enough at night over hisbottle of Holland gin, when he has only his Dutch friends about him."
When Lady Marlborough questioned the young Dillon as to what he saw andheard at the king's table, he replied "That no man was ever treated withsuch neglect and contempt as Lord Marlborough was.
"It is just what he deserves," replied the gracious dame; "he shouldhave considered how much better he was off some months ago." This showsthat Anne's favorite was not very friendly to King William at that time.
Dillon told her besides that he heard the king say "that LordMarlborough had the best talents for war of any one in England; buthe was a vile man, and though he had himself profited by his treason heabhorred the traitor."
This may have been merely a bit of gossip; but William placed the earlin command of English troops, which he sent to Holland to fill the placeof the Dutch forces he thought fit to retain near him in case of need.
While Marlborough was absent his wife busied herself with Princess Anneto get possession of the best suite of apartments at Whitehall. Thequeen wanted them, and a regular dispute arose between the two sisters,which might have gone on indefinitely had not William settled the matterin favor of Anne, to whom he felt he must yield something for peacesake. She retained her palace of the Cockpit also, and demanded the oneat Richmond; but that passed into the possession of Madame Puissars, oneof the daughters of Lady Villiers, and she would not relinquish it.
From that hour the royal sisters were at enmity with each other, thoughfor a time they kept up an appearance of cordiality
On the very evening that a report was brought to William and Mary of thedeath of James II. in Ireland they attended the theatre; but it happenedthe play contained so many allusions to various actions of theirmajesties relating to their accession and the treachery that precededit, that they were both rendered excessively uncomfortable, particularlyas each time the whole audience turned and looked straight at them.After that the master of the court amusements was ordered to be verycareful what plays were produced.
Several of Shakespeare's were prohibited, but particularly King Lear,which is not surprising. Nevertheless, the whole country blamed QueenMary for her indifference to her father's fate, and verses containingthe most scathing satire on her conduct were constantly distributedat the various coffee-houses.
Princess Anne had a son born during the summer, which was a very joyfulevent for all the royal family represented at Hampton Court. They werepleased, because as the child would be educated in the Reformed faith,there would be little probability of his being superseded by the RomanCatholic line of Stuart.
The king and queen stood sponsors for the infant, who was baptizedWilliam, and the same day proclaimed Duke of Gloucester. Mary fondledher little nephew a great deal, and paid more attention to her sisterthan she had done before. But she became dreadfully angry when shefound out that through the instrumentality of Lady Marlborough Anne hadapplied to the House of Commons for an income to be settled on herself.It was perfectly natural that the princess should make this demand,and it was granted; but Mary accused her of deceit and ingratitude foracting in such an underhand manner, and asked her in an angry tone:"What was the meaning of the proceedings in the House of Commons?"
Anne replied: "That she heard her friends there wished she should have asettled income."
"Friends?" asked the queen, haughtily, "Pray what friends have you butthe king and me?"
Perhaps Queen Mary might not have objected to a provision being made forher sister, had it not been the decision of parliament that the fiftythousand pounds they granted Anne should be deducted from King William'sincome. But she did not get it, for her brother-in-law managed topostpone the payment of the money throughout the summer, and Anne becamedeeply involved in debt. So much ill-feeling had grown up between herand her sister in consequence of this pecuniary difficulty that sheresolved to remove from Hampton Court. An excellent excuse offereditself in the illness of her baby, for he did not thrive for the firsttwo or three months of his existence, and it was thought change of airwould benefit him. Lord Craven offered his fine house at Kensington forthe prince's nursery; and just before his removal a young Quakeress,named Mrs. Pack, was engaged to nurse him. Anne was soon gratified byseeing a decided improvement in her child, who was taken out every dayto get the air in a little carriage drawn by a pair of ponies no largerthan goodsized dogs. These animals were led by Dick Drury, the Prince ofDenmark's coachman.
Meanwhile the Earl of Marlborough returned from Holland, when he and hiswife put their heads together and took such decided steps in favor ofAnne's income that before the end of the year the Commons intimated tothe king the propriety of allowing her fifty thousand pounds.
The Protestant branch of the royal family firmly held the reins ofgovernment in England at last but they were no happier than the exiledCatholic portion, and dissatisfaction had grown steadily among themasses.
James II. had left his country free from debt. One year after hisdeposition the revenue was minus three millions of pounds. The king hadnot spent it all; but dishonesty was the order of the day, and whoevercould obtain a government contract, whether for raising a regiment,provisioning, or clothing the army in Ireland, or providing ammunitionfor the navy, stole more than half the sum they received. They tookadvantage of the unsettled state of public affairs to enrich themselves.
Thus the English navy--the pride of the sailor-king, James--sustaineda shameful defeat, and the seamen were perfectly well aware that it wasnot lack of skill and bravery on their part that caused it. The soldiersin Ire land were supplied with bad food and damaged clothing, andmany of them died of disease.

James had never permitted the merchant ships to be taxed for theprotection they received from war-vessels; but now the convoy moneyreached such an enormous sum that the merchants sent an appeal toparliament to relieve them of such a dreadful tax. One of the worstoffenders in exacting this extortion was Captain Churchill, brother tothe Earl of Marlborough, and so serious was the charge brought againsthim that he was expelled from the House of Commons, of which he wasa member, and deprived of his vessel.
[[A.D. 1690.]] The Duke of Schomberg made serious complaints by letterto the king, to whom he wrote with regard to Mr. Harbord's regiment:"I do assure your majesty that the existence of this fine regiment islimited to its standard, which leans in a corner of his dressing-room,and that is all that he can show of it. Never, in all my life, did I seea nation so willing to steal."
William knew that his throne was tottering beneath so much corruption,and he deserved the misery such knowledge occasioned him. One day he wasdiscussing his troubles with his favorite, Bentinck, whom he had createdEarl of Portland, and expressed his surprise at the financial conditionof the country..
Portland asked his royal friend, "Whether he believed that there was onehonest man in the whole of Great Britain?"
"Yes, there are many," replied William, with a deep-drawn sigh,"there are many men of high honor in this country as well as inothers,--perhaps more; but, my Lord Portland, they are not _my_friends."
The following spring King William meant to join his troops in Ireland,and purchased Lord Nottingham's estate at Kensington, in order that apalace might be completed thereon by the time he should return. Theking was a martyr to asthma, and could scarcely breathe in the smokyatmosphere of London; therefore, he determined to have a home, not toofar off, in a healthful district.
Queen Mary superintended the building of this palace, and displayedextraordinary taste in the planning of the grounds and the laying outof the gardens. This occupied a great deal of her time during theking's absence, but as he left the government in her hands she had othermatters to attend to besides. Nine councillors were appointed toadvise and assist the queen; but Prince George was not of theirnumber, because he had hired some Danish troops to fight against hisfather-in-law, and accompanied the king to Ireland.

Queen Mary acted with a great deal of decision, and wrote letters to herhusband every day to keep him informed of everything that transpired.When a French fleet appeared in the channel she had a large number ofnoblemen who were not friendly to her cause arrested. Among these wereher two uncles, who had viewed her conduct with shame and disgust. Hernext step was to banish all Catholics from London and its vicinity. Herposition was really dreadful, for she was surrounded by secret enemiesand people who consulted their own interest above everything else.The defeat of the navy by the French at Beachy Head was a greatmisfortune that would not have befallen the English if their ships hadbeen kept in proper condition; but there was no one to look out forthem as King James had done. Queen Mary had no confidence in severalcandidates who offered themselves for the command, and others whom shedesired to take it had no confidence in themselves for naval service.This defeat was soon forgotten, however, when news arrived of thevictory of William's army at the Boyne. Without any thought for the fateof her father, Mary gave herself up to rejoicing over the success ofher husband,--the one subject that filled her mind. She at once began tourge his return, but William was too good a general not to know that thecontest was not yet decided. Much misery had been caused in Ireland bythe presence of his enormous army, and that wretched country was not yetto cease groaning under his despotism. When compelled to raise the siegeof Waterford, William was asked how the sick and wounded prisoners wereto be disposed of. "Burn them!" was his wicked command; and this wasonly one of the many cruel acts really perpetrated by his troops.
William was anxious to return to England; but, as the victorious Frenchfleet occupied both the English channel and that of St. George, it wasno safe matter for him to venture past their ships.
Meanwhile, the queen continued her daily letters, and made most humbleapologies to her despotic lord, because his Kensington Palace was notquite ready for his reception, and still smelt of the fresh paint. Shetook all the blame on herself, and expressed her willingness to putherself to any inconvenience, no matter how great, if only she mightadvance his comfort and hasten his return. This wifely devotion would beall right if William had been a good husband, but he was not, and showedhimself incapable of appreciating the sacrifices offered for his sake.Queen Mary was sorely perplexed about the command of the navy. Herfather had left it ruler of the seas, but two disastrous defeats thathad overtaken it since her accession had so demoralized the sailors anddestroyed the vessels that none of the old sea-captains could be inducedto contend against the well-appointed fleet of Louis XIV. She proposedChurchill in one of her letters, but she ought to have recoiled fromplacing the man who had extorted convoy money from the merchant ships insuch an important position of trust. At last the French fleet left theIrish coast, and gave the king a chance to slip over to England, whichhe gladly began to prepare for; but first he attempted to besiegeLimerick. Twelve hundred of his soldiers were killed, but the governormade such a desperate resistance that William raised the siege, andembarked for England with Prince George of Denmark.
His return had been delayed so much longer than he intended thatKensington Palace was ready for his reception. After spending a coupleof days at Hampton Court, he went with the queen to their new home,where they remained throughout the autumn.
Mary possessed unusual ability for governing, as she proved later, whenher husband was carrying on his war in Flanders. As soon as he finishedhis Irish campaign, his whole time and attention were directed towardspreparations for his war, which was a great drain on the wealth of GreatBritain, and consequently a source of dissatisfaction to the people.
Lord Marlborough made his first military success in Ireland just afterWilliam had returned from that country, and was warmly thanked for it,when he presented himself at Kensington, by the king and queen, thoughthey had not forgiven him for the interest he took in procuring PrincessAnne's income for her.
[A.D. 1691.] At the beginning of the following year the kingembarked for the Hague, leaving the same nine lords to advise and assistthe queen as before. A plot for the restoration of James II. had beendiscovered; but that did not detain William after his arrangements wereperfected for the war he was anxious to continue.
The very day after his departure the trial of Lord Preston and Mr.Ashton began. Both were implicated in this plot, and both had occupiedimportant positions in the household of King James. Ashton was executed,but Preston's life was spared in this way: Lady Catherine Graham, alittle girl nine years of age, was his daughter, and loved him verydearly. During his trial she remained at Windsor Castle, where she hadlived up to that period with her parents. The day after Lord Prestonwas condemned the queen found the child in St. George's gallery gazingearnestly up at a picture of James II. Her mournful expression attractedthe attention of Mary, who asked little Catherine, "What she saw in thatpicture that made her look at it so steadily?"
"I was thinking," replied the child, "how hard it is that my father mustdie for loving yours."
The queen's conscience was pricked by this answer, and she signed LordPreston's pardon.
But she may have had another reason for this good deed, for Prestoncould tell all the particulars of the plot, and did so. His evidencecaused the punishment of many of the nobility and clergy, and led to theimprisonment of the queen's uncle, Lord Clarendon, who remained shut upin the Tower as long as Mary's regency lasted. Many people were put tothe torture who either had conspired against their majesties or weresuspected of doing so; and Sancroft, the Archbishop of Canterbury,besides other Church of England clergymen, were deprived of theirpositions, because they refused to take the oath of allegiance toWilliam and Mary.
During these dreadful proceedings King William's life had been in dangeron the coast of Holland, where a dense fog prevented his making land assoon as he expected. Hearing from some fisherman that he was not morethan a mile and a half from shore, the king resolved to be rowed in hisbarge. The Duke of Ormond and some other noblemen accompanied him. In afew moments the boat was lost in the fog, and could neither approach theshore nor return to the fleet. Night came on, and the waves dashed overthe king, as he lay in the bottom of the boat covered up with his cloak.Some one expressed alarm at the situation when William asked sternly,"What, are you afraid to die with me?" At daybreak the fog had risen,and the party in the royal barge landed.
The king met with a grand reception at the Hague, for this was his firstappearance there since he had mounted the British throne, and the Dutchconsidered that he had made the conquest of Great Britain. They hailedhim "The Conqueror," which was not a pleasant sound to the Englishmenwho had accompanied him.
After a stay of three months William returned to Eng-land for a supplyof money and troops, and arrived just in time to see the Palace ofWhitehall burned to the ground. Queen Mary barely escaped with her life,for she was a sound sleeper, and had not been aroused until the fire waswell under way in the part of the palace she occupied.
The enmity between Mary and Anne was kept alive by several disagreeablecircumstances, and encouraged by the partisans of each.
We have seen what influence Lord Marlborough and his wife exerted overthe Princess Anne. Their ambition prompted them to prefer a requestthrough her that the Order of the Garter might be bestowed on theearl as a reward for his military merit. This was refused by Queen Mary,and Marlborough was so enraged that he at once set to work to conspirefor the downfall of herself and the king. As he was one of the councilof nine appointed to assist the queen in governing, her positionbecame dangerous, particularly as Marlborough wrote James II., "That heregretted his crimes against him, and would bring the Princess Anne backto her duty at the least word of encouragement."
James's only reply was, "That his good intentions must be proved bydeeds rather than words."
The result was a very dutiful letter written by Anne to her father; butas Lady Fitzharding acted as a spy for the king, both he and Queen Maryknew all about the letter long before it reached its destination. Itwas written near the end of the year, and shortly after William's returnfrom Flanders, where some bloody battles had been fought, and a greatnumber of lives had been lost among the English troops; so his majesty'stemper was not sweetened in the least.
When it was Marlborough's turn to act as gentleman of the bed-chamberhe began his duties, but was soon dismissed, and afterwards receiveda message, "that the king and queen desired Lord Marlborough to absenthimself from their presence for the future."
This made Princess Anne very angry; but her anger was changed to alarm,when she was informed by an anonymous letter that the next step of thegovernment would be to imprison Lord Marlborough, and added a warningas to the treachery of Lady Fitzharding. The king and queen broughtno charge; because, if they had dared openly to accuse Marlborough oftrying to effect a reconciliation between Anne and her father, many oftheir subjects would have followed his example.
[A.D. 1692.] Shortly after her husband's dismissal, LadyMarlborough attended Princess Anne to a court reception. The next dayQueen Mary wrote her sister that not only must the lady not appear againat court, but she must be at once dismissed from her service, becauseher presence at the Cockpit gave Lord Marlborough an excuse forappearing where he was forbidden to come.
Anne wrote her sister a letter full of remonstrance, praising thevirtues of Lady Marlborough, and refusing to part with her. The onlyreply she got was an official message from Queen Mary, warning Lord andLady Marlborough to remain no longer at the palace.
But Anne was determined not to part with her favorite, so politelyinformed the queen rather than do so she herself would depart. She thenapplied to the Duchess of Somerset for the loan of her Sion house forthe summer, and received the reply, "that Sion house was entirely at herservice."
King William had requested the Duke of Somerset not to grant the demandof Princess Anne; and finding that he had not been obeyed, he determinedon a petty revenge, rather unusual with him. He ordered that Anne shouldbe deprived of the guards that had attended her ever since her fatherhad allowed her to set up an establishment of her own. This was aserious matter, because highwaymen infested all the roads in thevicinity of London, and the princess was really stopped once whendriving out, and robbed of all the jewels and money she had with her.The king and queen were very much censured for allowing their sisterto go about in such an unprotected state. This was done by means ofplacards and circulars; for there were no daily papers in those days forthe expression of public opinion, and, as a rule, they were made out inrhyme. Sometimes they were set to music and sung about the streets or inthe various coffee-houses. William returned to his Flemish campaignagain in March, and left his wife to govern alone for the third time.Previous to his departure he had signed the warrant which authorizedthe massacre of Glencove. A hundred men, women, and children wereslaughtered in cold blood in this Highland glen; but William wasprobably ignorant of the details of this atrocious crime, which cast adark shadow over his glory. He may have thought that the intention ofhis agents in Scotland was merely to extirpate a band of thieves, butsuch was not the case; theirs was an act of outrageous cruelty promptedby revenge, and William was too much interested in his campaign to paymuch attention to it.
One of Mary's first public acts after her husband's departure was toreview a band of ten thousand men in Hyde Park, who were destined todefend the capital in case of an invasion from France. Next she sentRussell, an arrogant, dishonest politician, in charge of the Englishnavy, to combine with the Dutch fleet in opposition to the French.It was necessity that compelled the queen to choose Russell for heradmiral: she would have preferred the more able Marlborough; but as hewas now an open enemy, ready at a moment's notice to fly to the side ofKing James, that could not be.
Princess Anne was seriously ill a short time after, and the queen wentto see her as soon as she heard of it; but instead of talking kindly toher sister, and expressing sympathy, she merely sat by her bedside fora few moments, and then said: "I have made the first step towardsreconciliation by coming to you, and I now hope that you will makethe next by dismissing Lady Marlborough." The remark was certainlyill-timed, and no doubt the queen regretted it later; but she never toldher sister so, and they remained enemies to the end. Anne's reply, whichwas made in a weak, trembling voice on account of her illness,was: "I have never in my life disobeyed your majesty but in thisone particular, and I hope at some time or other it will appearas unreasonable to your majesty as it does now to me." Queen Maryimmediately arose and took her departure, but repeated to Prince George,as he was leading her to her carriage, precisely what she had saidto his wife. An attack of fever followed her sister's visit, and forseveral days Anne's life was despaired of, but she recovered at last. Nosooner was her convalescence established, however, than she was throwninto a dreadful state of distress, because the queen had orderedMarlborough to be arrested and hurried off to the Tower. The chargebrought against him was that he was in correspondence with the court atSt. Germain; and while the French invasion threatened Mary thought bestto secure herself against his treachery by putting him safely out of theway.
Princess Anne considered herself a very ill-used sister, and never lostan opportunity of appearing in the attitude of injured innocence, so shewrote to Stillingfleet, Bishop of Worcester, and requested him to cometo her. He obeyed, and she showed him a letter she had written hersister, the queen, in which she requested permission to wait upon hermajesty, but dared not do so without it, because of the displeasure shehad incurred. At the conclusion of the letter the princess added, thatshe would not think of returning to the Cockpit to live unless it wasagreeable to her majesty. Anne's reason for sending this submissivedocument through the Bishop of Worcester, was that she wanted everybodyto know she had tried to act in a friendly manner towards her sister.
After reading the letter the bishop consented to be the bearer of it,and the reply he brought back was decided and formal.


The queen stated that she had done all towards a reconciliationthat she meant to do, and that if Princess Anne would not consent to thedismissal of Lady Marlborough she need not trouble herself to come tocourt; for she would not be received.
Knowing that in the circumstances a residence at the Cockpit wouldbe anything but agreeable, Anne retained it only for those of herattendants who were not obnoxious to the government, and leased BerkeleyHouse for herself. Then she wrote to Lady Marlborough, who was withher husband, and related all that had happened, closing her letter withassurances of undying devotion and a desire soon to be reunited.
The battle of La Hogue was so decided a success for the English navythat it restored some of its lost credit. Queen Mary was well pleasedwith the valor of her sailors, and sent thirty thousand pounds in goldto be distributed among them, and a gold medal to each of the officers.But she deserves credit for a still worthier deed; she ordered theunfinished palace of Greenwich to be fitted up for the wounded seamen,and every possible care to be taken of them.
After the victory of La Hogue the queen made an effort to keep alive thepopular enthusiasm by receiving addresses of congratulation, dressed inher regal robes, and by reviewing the militia and artillery companies inperson. But she was at the same time guilty of several acts of tyrannyin causing the death of those whom the jury had failed to convict.
She kept Lord Marlborough shut up in the Tower as long as possible, andonly released him at last on bail. Meanwhile, Princess Anne was deprivedof the society of her favorites, but she frequently wrote to LadyMarlborough, and referred to the king as "Caliban," or "that Dutchmonster"; she sometimes mentioned her little son, the Duke ofGloucester, and said that she patiently awaited the bright day when heshould arrive at man's estate, so that England might flourish again.
In order to rid the metropolis of burglars, and the neighboring roadsof highwaymen, Queen Mary issued a proclamation offering forty pounds ahead for such offenders. This led to the execution of an enormous numberof people without remedying the evil, and the reward thus obtainedwas called "blood-money." Queen Mary's order was meant to benefit hersubjects, but it proved a serious evil, for the prisons were soon filledto overflowing, and the jailers and thief-catchers played into eachother's hands, and often punished innocent people for the sake of the"blood-money." They managed in this way: One of the villains wouldpretend to be a professional robber, and entice a couple of youths ordishonestly inclined men to join him in waylaying and robbing a certainparty. That party would of course be a confederate, who would followup the dupes, trace the stolen property with the assistance of theoriginator of the crime, and by that means cause two arrests andexecutions, for which the human fiends would receive eighty pounds. Thenthe chiefs engaged in the plot would meet and divide the spoils at anentertainment to which they gave the name of "the blood-feast."
The executions under this system amounted to as many as forty a month inthe city of London alone. Another evil which exists to this very dayis to be traced to William and Mary's reign; it is the establishment ofgin-shops. William gave encouragement to the manufactories of spirituousliquors, the imbibing of which is the source of most of the crime andsorrow of the world, and any one who has noticed the number of gin-shopsin London, and the drinking saloons in other cities, can scarcelybe blind to the evil they tend to promote. Before King Williamreturned to England again much blood had been shed, and the wealth ofboth France and Great Britain was nearly exhausted. When Louis XIV. wasdiscussing the probable termination of the war he said: "Ah, the lastguinea will carry the victory." He was right, for the people of bothcountries were heavily taxed, and it was only a question who should holdout longer with their guineas.
Whenever the king was with her, Mary abandoned all government cares,and took to needlework, in which she was imitated by her ladies. Herfavorite occupation in this line was the making of knotted fringe ofwhite flax-thread, that no doubt closely resembled the macramé lace ofthe present day. The Dutch ladies knitted, and even took their work tochurch, and kept their fingers employed while listening to a sermon.
[[A.D. 1693.]] King William's return from Flanders was celebrated by agrand thanksgiving dinner at Guildhall, and another at the armory of theTower, where their majesties dined in state, and were waited on by themaster architects and workmen in masonic aprons and regalia. It was theking's policy to gain favor with his English subjects, because he hadonly come among them for more supplies, and was off again within fourmonths, to remain until towards the end of the year.
During that interval Queen Mary's navy met with two disastrous defeats,and the king had lost the hard-fought, bloody battle of Landen inFlanders. The people of England were groaning under the weight of heavytaxation, and general dissatisfaction with the government was openlyexpressed. There had been several dishonest prime ministers; butprevious to his departure the king appointed Charles Talbot, Earl ofShrewsbury, to that important position.
We have not said anything about the little Duke of Gloucester for along time; but it must not, therefore, be supposed that he was forgotteneither by his mother or his royal aunt. He lived at Campden House, andwas taken daily to visit the queen whenever she was at Kensington.
[[A.D. 1694.]] Princess Anne was very desirous that her son should bemade a Knight of the Garter; but her relations with the queen were suchthat she dared not ask it. However, she sent the prince to visit hermajesty one day with a broad blue ribbon passed over his shoulder andfastened down on the left side as a reminder. No notice was taken ofit; but the child had evidently been taught that something was to beaccorded him in connection with the ribbon, for when the queen offeredhim a brilliantly-colored bird, he looked very sober, and said, "Hewould not rob her majesty of it."
When he had attained his fifth year, the prince's mother thought ithigh time that he should be put into masculine attire, and consultedher husband about it, saying that the clothing he was wearing interferedwith his military amusements. An order was accordingly given to LadyFitzhard-ing, who procured for the child a suit of white cloth withsilver loops and buttons, and a periwig. Under his waistcoat he wore astiff corset that hurt him dreadfully. His tailor, Mr. Hughes, was sentfor to remedy the trouble, and when he appeared at Campden House he wassurprised to find himself surrounded by a score of mimic soldiers,--thelittle prince having summoned his regiment to punish the man who hadcaused him pain. There is no telling how far the little urchins wouldhave gone, for they were beating and mauling Mr. Hughes at a great rate,when Lewis Jenkins, the usher, appeared to inquire into the cause ofthe racket. An explanation followed, and, upon the tailor's givinga faithful promise that he would alter the stays to fit his littlehighness, he was released. One day the little regiment was busilydrilling in Kensington Gardens, while the king and queen watched theirmovements with a great deal of interest. Suddenly the Duke of Gloucesterapproached his uncle, and gravely offered himself and his whole troopfor the Flemish war. Then turning to Queen Mary, he added: "My mammaonce had guards as well as you; why has she not now?" Her majestycolored and looked surprised, while the king offered the drummer of theregiment two guineas as a reward for the noise he could make; whereuponthe little fellow drowned any further awkward questioning. Of course,Queen Mary knew very well that the prince could not remember when hismother's guard had been dismissed, therefore all the knowledge he had ofit was what he had heard from his parents.
The Duke of Gloucester's soldiers were often a nuisance to theneighborhood; for on their way home after drill they would enter houseson the road to London, and help themselves to any dainty bit of food thelarder happened to contain. This they did in imitation of the soldiersquartered in the vicinity of London, and felt especially privilegedas "Gloucester's men." Like most people who ape others, it was the badqualities these little boys selected.
Next time King William returned from Flanders he found the bribery andcorruption in his government just as bad as ever, and the new primeminister worse than the old ones had been. Parliament was opened, andcharges of the gravest character were brought even against the queen'simmediate attendants, in some of whom she reposed the utmost confidence.This was a source of great trouble to Queen Mary, and in the midst of itArchbishop Tillotson fell dead in the pulpit one Sunday while performingthe service.
Christmas was approaching, and the royal pair decided to spend itquietly at Kensington Palace. By the twentieth of December the queen wasso ill that she must have had some doubts as to her recovery, for shesat up at her secretary the whole night examining and burning papersthat she desired nobody to see. Perhaps this occupation aggravatedher illness, for she grew worse, and two days later was considered indanger. Princess Anne sent to ask permission to wait on her majesty. Themessage was delivered to the first lady-in-waiting, who went into thebed-chamber where the queen lay, and in a few moments returned with themessage, "That the king would send an answer the next day."
But the only message received by the Princess Anne was a request topostpone her visit, because it was necessary to keep the queen as quietas possible. The king was so distressed at his wife's danger that he hadhis camp-bed removed to her room, and remained with her night and day.
At last Archbishop Tennison, who had replaced Tillotson, informed thequeen that her end was drawing near. She was not at all surprised, andsaid, "That she thanked God she had left nothing to the last hour; shehad then nothing to do but to look up to God and submit to His will."
Then the last rites of the church were administered; but the queen didnot die until the twenty-eighth of December, in the sixth year of herreign, and the thirty-third of her age. Not a word had the dead womanleft for the sister with whom she had quarrelled; not an expression ofsorrow or regret for the father whom she had injured.
All the members of the House of Commons marched in the funeralprocession, and Queen Mary was interred at Westminster Abbey.
Queen Mary had desired to convert Greenwich Palace into a retreatfor seamen, which work she had begun after the battle of La Hogue, aswe have seen. After her death King William reproached himself for havingneglected her wishes in this respect. He lost no time in ordering a planwhich was supplied by the well-known architect, Christopher Wren, andsoon a magnificent building arose in place of the one that had beenburned down. The king did not live to see the completion of this asylum,otherwise a statue of the real foundress would have graced the court.However, the building itself is a noble monument to the memory of QueenMary II. 



CHAPTER XII. ANNE, QUEEN-REGNANT OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
(A.D. 1694-1714.)
|We have already heard a great deal about Anne, because up to the deathof her sister, Queen Mary, their lives are so closely connected thatit is impossible to understand some of the incidents without mentioningboth sisters. The death of Mary brought Princess Anne more into publicnotice as heir presumptive to the throne, though it was many yearsbefore she became Queen of England. Heretofore, as we have seen, shelived like a private person at Berkeley House, and had not even beenpermitted to appear at court, because of the ill-feeling that existedbetween her and her sister Mary. Lord and Lady Marlborough, whosedevotion to Princess Anne had seriously offended the queen, stillcontinued her warm friends, and the princess wrote letters to her fatherfilled with professions of loyalty and affection as before. King Jamesdid not attach much importance to them; but how could he, poor man,after the sad experience he had had. He knew perfectly well that hisdaughter merely consulted her own interest whether she appeared in thelight of his friend or his enemy; for never was a father worse treatedthan poor James had been by both his daughters.
The Duke of Gloucester was with his mother when Queen Mary's death wasannounced, and his attendants were surprised at the indifference hemanifested. He had been fond of his royal aunt; but as he was only fiveyears


of age, he could not comprehend the full significance of death, andlike most children, was more interested in those people and objects thatimmediately surrounded him. It was otherwise with his mother, for sheand her sister had loved each other devotedly in early years; and whenthe grave closed over Queen Mary's body, all enmity was forgotten, andPrincess Anne could only remember that a once fondly loved relative wasirrevocably lost. The old affection returned, and she wept bitter tears.The memory of her sister made her heart warm towards King William, whomshe had thoroughly detested for several years. Perhaps his desperategrief touched her, for he shut himself up in Kensington Palace and gavevent to the most agonizing sobs. Those who knew him best were surprisedthat a man of his disposition could take sorrow so to heart; but he hadlost a devoted wife and friend,--one who had sought to place him in theforemost ranks on every occasion, and to gain for him the credit andpraise that was really due to her own superior talent for ruling.William III. was well aware of this, and of the fact that henceforth hishold on the crown was by no means secure. His only right to his loftyposition was through his wife, and now that she was removed might nota breath deprive him of it? While the war lasted he was compelled toabsent himself from England nearly half the year. Hitherto Queen Maryhad supplied his place, who was to do so now? His position seemeddifficult and dangerous. One day, when he was sitting alone with hishead bowed down in grief, Lord Somers entered the room. The king took nonotice of him whatever. After waiting a few moments, Somers approachedand stated the cause of his intrusion, which was a proposition hedesired to make that the hostility of the court towards Princess Anneshould terminate.
"My lord, do as you please; I can think of no business," was the replyof the sorrow-stricken king. Lord Somers chose to construe thisundecided answer into consent, and so set to work to negotiate areconciliation through Lord Sunderland, by whose advice Princess Annewas induced to write the following letter to the king:--
_Sir,--I beg your majesty's favorable acceptance of my sincere andhearty sorrow for your great affliction in the loss of the queen. And Ido assure your majesty I am as sensibly touched with this sadmisfortune as if I had never been so unhappy as to have fallen into herdispleasure._
_It is my earnest desire your majesty would give me leave to wait uponyou as soon as it can be without inconvenience to yourself, and withoutdanger of increasing your affliction, that I may have the opportunitymyself, not only of repeating this, but assuring your majesty of myreal intentions to omit no occasion of giving you constant proofs of mysincere respect and concern for your person and interest, as becomes,sir,_
_Your majesty's affectionate sister and servant, Anne._
The princess must have felt her welfare at stake as well as that of herson; otherwise she could not have been induced to write so dutiful aletter to the brother-in-law who had treated her so unkindly for manyyears. It was Archbishop Tennison who took it upon himself to deliverthe letter, and at the same time to say all he could in praise of thedisinterested conduct of the princess during the period when she wasdebarred from appearing at court. King William knew better, but gave thearchbishop credit for honesty, and concluded that he might with safetytrust to the fidelity of Anne now, because her interest was closelylinked with his own. He therefore sent her some of the late queen'sjewels, in token of reconciliation, and appointed an interview atKensington Palace.
Anne was in such a dreadful state of health, and so puffed up withdropsy, that she had to be carried to the presence-chamber in a chair.Both she and the king were affected to tears when they met, and aftera few remarks they retired to a private room, where they conversed fornearly three-quarters of an hour. The details of that interview arenot known; but it is certain that the royal brother and sister-in-lawagreed to combine all their interests against James II. and his son, andWilliam further consented to an amnesty with the Earl of Marlborough,for whom he felt supreme contempt.

When Bentinck was consulted as to his opinion of the reconciliation, hewarned the king against putting any trust in the professions of eitherMarlborough or the princess; but he had withdrawn himself from the sideof his once beloved master for some mysterious reason, and anotherwas required to take his place, so in course of time we shall findthe much-despised earl courted and honored by King William. Thereconciliation between Anne and the king had not been effected too soon,for the Jacobites began to agitate the question whether the princess wasnot the real Queen of Great Britain, and Ireland; and those provincesthat were not kept in subjection by the dread of a standing army wereprepared to rebel against a foreign king, who held his position merelyby permission of parliament. These were all prepared to support Anne,with the hope that once placed upon the throne she would not hesitateto resign in favor of her father and brother, because her friendlycorrespondence with the former was known. Many important arrests weremade, and many agitators escaped from the kingdom. Anne continuedwriting to her father, and made promises that she had no idea offulfilling; but he was not deceived, though he deeply deplored thealliance she had formed for the second time with his enemy.
When William returned to Flanders he left no power in the hands ofAnne whatever, but the council of nine took entire charge of governmentaffairs, and the Archbishop of Canterbury was one of their number.
King William's reign, contrary to the expectation of all the statesmenof Europe, was decidedly more prosperous and more tranquil after QueenMary's death than it had been during her life.
In course of time Princess Anne's health improved, and she became agreat huntress. This exercise was begun for the cure of gout and dropsy,but was continued on account of the pleasure the princess derived fromit. She was too fat to hunt on horseback, but went in a sort of sedanchair, hung between two very high wheels, and drawn by one horse. Howthe stag was ever brought down when hunted from such an equipage is amystery that experienced sportsmen may be able to solve. Theyoung Duke of Gloucester still lived at Campden House, because it wasconsidered a healthful spot, and his health was so delicate that it wasfeared he might die if not carefully watched. He had a disease calledwater on the brain, which made his head larger than it ought to havebeen, and often threatened to prostrate him. There were times when hecould not bear to go up or down stairs without having a person to holdhim on either side. This fancy was indulged for a time, but at lastit was attributed to cowardice, for there was no one sufficientlywell-informed as to the nature of his disease to suspect that he feltdizzy. His mother once shut herself up in a room with him for an hourto try and reason him out of being led about, as he was then past fiveyears of age, but he obstinately refused to stir alone until he waswhipped again and again. The fact of a child of his vivacity fearing togo up and down stairs without assistance ought to have been sufficientevidence that something was wrong with him; but after the whipping,which certainly ought not to have been administered to a personsuffering from any disease of the brain, the young prince dispensed withsupport, though his head must often have ached and felt very confused.Prince George of Denmark was particularly anxious that no infirmityshould be observed in his son, because he could not bear to have himheld up to ridicule by the scribblers, who considered no calamity sacredfrom the merciless attacks of their pens. The brutal articles thatappeared daily against the "the young pretender" prompted him to shieldhis son from similar ones by the opposite party. That was all very well;but disease cannot be whipped out of anybody, and so the prince wasencouraged to fight against his malady until he became very ill. DoctorRadcliffe was summoned from Oxford, and did all he could for the littlesufferer, who had a fever which kept him in bed two whole weeks.But he was not permitted to be quiet, for his small soldiers wereconstantly at his bedside blowing their trumpets, beating drums,building toy fortifications, and making a great deal more noise most ofthe time than was good for the invalid. The old nurse of PrincessAnne sent the sick boy a large doll dressed as a warrior by one of hisattendants named Wetherby. This present occasioned much indignationamong the young soldiers, because it was full six months since any ofthem had condescended to play with toys of so effeminate a nature,and sentence of destruction was immediately pronounced on the doll. Nosooner was it carried into effect than it was decided that the messengerought to receive punishment, too.
[[A.D. 1695.]] But Wetherby knew what a rough lot of boys surrounded theprince, and, taking warning by the treatment the doll had receivedat their hands, hastened down Campden-Hill and hid himself. In theafternoon the unfortunate fellow was discovered and captured,--fourgrown men having been pressed into the service,--and locked up allnight. The next morning he was brought before the Duke of Gloucester,who pronounced his sentence. Wetherby was forthwith bound, hand andfoot, mounted on a large hobby-horse and soused all over with water fromlarge syringes. This was all done for the amusement of the duke; and asWetherby had taken part on various occasions in playing similar jokeson the men who assisted the boys, they showed him no mercy now. When thepoor prisoner was half-drowned, he was drawn into the presence of theinvalid, who enjoyed immensely his woeful plight.
The following summer change of air was strongly recommended for theroyal boy by Dr. Radcliffe, and, after seeking accommodation atseveral watering-places, the Princess Anne decided to take him toTwickenham. There she was offered three adjoining houses which belongedto Mrs. Davies, a gentlewoman more than eighty years of age, who hadbelonged to the court of Charles I. This lady was bright, cheerful,healthy, and excessively pious. She was simple in her habits, and hadlived on fruit and herbs nearly all her life. She was well-born andrich, and owned a large estate, on which were planted a number of finefruit trees. Her cherries, which were just ripe when the princess wentto Twickenham, were the finest in all the country around; and the oldlady gave the people of the royal household full permission to gather asmany as they chose, providing that they would not injure her trees, ofwhich she was very proud.
At the end of a month Princess Anne ordered her treasurer to hand Mrs.Davies a hundred guineas for rent and the trouble her people had given;but the aged hostess positively refused to accept a farthing, and whenpressed to receive the money, she indignantly arose, and, letting thegold-pieces that had been placed in her lap, roll all over the floor,quietly walked out of the room. The princess was astonished at suchgenerosity, and declared that, although it would have been a pleasure toher to reward the old lady to the utmost of her power, her feelings mustnot be hurt by a further offer of money.
The little Duke of Gloucester formed such a warm attachment for Mrs.Davies that he loved to nestle in her lap and confide to her all hissecret woes. His younger and fairer associates, who lavished flatteryand attention on him, were not half so attractive as the honest dame,who, having nothing to gain or lose, always told him the truth. Theroyal boy's religious education had not been neglected; prayers had beenread to him twice every day by his chaplain; but he never knew what theymeant, nobody had taken the trouble to explain them; and he hadnaturally paid little attention to what he had failed to understand.Mrs. Davies soon comprehended where the difficulty lay; and it was fromher lips that the duke learned the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, theTen Commandments, and several hymns, all of which were carefully andpatiently explained until they were made clear to his infant mind.
One Sunday, when the princess was preparing to go to church, her sonasked if he might accompany her. She was surprised, because he had nevermade such a request before, but gave permission. Then the little Duke ofGloucester ran to inform his governess, Lady Fitzharding, who askedhim if he would say the psalms,--a performance to which he had alwaysobjected.
"I will sing them," proudly replied the boy; thus showing the effect ofhis aged friend's instruction.
One day, while the princess was making her toilet, the boy looked upinto her face and asked: "Mamma, why have you two chaplains, and I butone?"
"Pray," returned the mother, with an amused smile, "what do you giveyour one chaplain?" She merely asked this question to hear what sortof a reply her son would make, and to find out whether he knew that thechaplains of the royal household received no pay.
The little duke looked at her earnestly for a moment, and then said:"Mamma, I give him his liberty!"
The princess laughed heartily at the little boy's unconscious repartee.
On his return to Campden House the Duke of Gloucester found his soldiercompany posted as sentinels on guard, and they received their commanderwith presented arms and all the honors of war. After that the dailydrill took place regularly on an open plain, called Wormwood Common.One morning the duke fell with a pistol in his hand, and hurthis forehead against it. The wound was still bleeding when he reachedCampden House, and the ladies began to pity him; but he put on a boldair and told them "that a bullet had grazed his forehead, but that as asoldier he could not cry when wounded."
There was so much ceremony observed among the royal attendants all thetime that Mr. Tratt, the tutor, considered it an infringement of hisrights when Jenkins, the Welsh usher, undertook to give the Duke ofGloucester his first lessons in fencing and mathematics.
The child ran to his mother every time he learned anything new to makea display of his knowledge; but Jenkins was told to "mind his ownbusiness" by those who considered that he ought to be otherwiseemployed. Lady Fitz-harding, in particular, found great fault with hisfilling the duke's head with such "stuff" as mathematics, and seemedto regard the figures drawn in geometry some sort of magic-signs thatsavored of witchcraft. But her husband eased her mind by assuring herthat Lewis Jenkins "was a good youth, who had read much, but meant noharm." The princess ordered Lord Fitzharding to hinder Jenkins fromteaching her son anything, because he might get wrong ideas, that itwould be hard to correct when he began to study according to the regularmethod.
Shortly after she saw the duke fencing with a wooden sword, anddefending himself against the attack of an imaginary foe. "I thought Iforbade your people to fence with you," observed her royal highness.
"Oh yes, mamma," replied the child; "but I hope you will give them leaveto defend themselves when I attack them."
He never tired of hearing tales from ancient history, and could recitemany exploits of the heroes, much to the disgust of the tutor, whoknew that the knowledge had not been imparted by him.
On the return of her brother-in-law in the autumn, Princess Anne wrotehim a letter of congratulation on his conquest of Namur. The one shewrote after the death of the queen had resulted so favorably to herselfthat she expected equally pleasant effects from the present one; but shesoon found her mistake, for the king had come home in a bad humor, andtreated her letter with silent contempt. Perhaps congratulations seemedout of place when he remembered that the lives of twelve thousand menhad paid the cost of his victory, besides an enormous sum of money.
A few weeks later he made a state visit to Campden House, when the dukereceived him with military honors. The king was very much amused, andasked the child "whether he had any horses yet."
"Oh yes," replied he, "I have one live horse and two dead ones."
"You keep dead horses, do you?" asked his majesty. "That is not the waywith soldiers, for they always bury their dead horses."
The little duke was impressed by what his uncle had said, and determinedto be as much like a real soldier as possible; so he summoned hisregiment as soon as the king had departed, and buried his two hobbyhorses that he had designated as dead ones. A Shetland pony, no largerthan a Newfoundland dog, was his riding animal.
During the king's absence Princess Anne had received all due honors, asfirst royal lady of the realm, and this gratified her ambition entirely;but when his majesty thought fit to confer upon his favorite, Bentinck,and his heirs forever, all the rights of the Princess of Wales, notonly was Anne justly indignant at seeing her son deprived ofhis privileges, but the whole country viewed the action with extremedisfavor, and the House of Commons contested it with great warmth.William III. was compelled to revoke the grant; but the hard feeling ithad aroused in the mind of Princess Anne remained, and his majesty tookno pains to conciliate her. On the contrary, as soon as he was convincedthat the removal of his wife had not affected his position, he began toregret the alliance he had formed with his sister-in-law, and treatedher with marked disrespect. He even forbade the members of the clergyto bow before her previous to beginning their sermons, according to thecustom in the Church of England at that time. To be sure, the Deanof Canterbury and the rector of St. James's Church did not pay theslightest attention to the prohibition, and the princess always returnedtheir salute with marked civility.
King William had become dreadfully irritable since the death of hiswife. We know that he was naturally surly and ill-natured; but hisfondness for Holland gin excited him to such a degree that he would canehis inferior servants if they chanced to neglect even the most triflingduty. The way they tried to dodge his majesty when he was in anunusually fractious mood was amusing, and the members of the royalhousehold called those who were obliged to submit to the blows "KingWilliam's Knights of the Cane."
A French servant, who had charge of his majesty's guns, and who attendedhim in his shooting excursions in the Hampden Court park, forgot oneday to provide himself with shot, although it was his duty to load thefowling-piece. He did not dare to acknowledge his neglect, but keptcharging the gun with powder only, and every time the king fired wouldexclaim, "I did never,--no, never, see his majesty miss before." Thusare petty tyrants invariably deceived.
[[A.D. 1696.]]


As the anniversary of King William's birthday approached there was aflutter of excitement at court, and all the beaux and belles of theEnglish nobility flocked to town to attend the grand reception that wasto take place. This was no pleasure to William, for he had been aided insuch matters by his wife, who had known better how to conduct herself onsuch occasions than he did; and now that he had to undertake a ceremonywhich he disliked, with no one one to guide him, he felt his bereavementmore deeply than ever. If he had been friendly towards Anne he mighthave enlisted her services, and escaped from some of the etiquette thatwas so irksome to him. But instead of that, he actually treated her withno more consideration than he showed to the wives of the aldermen andcommon councilmen, and kept her waiting with them for nearly twohours in the ante-chamber. This insult was repeated on several similaroccasions, until the public began to murmur, and the Englishofficials who had access to the king took the liberty of reminding himthat her royal highness was his superior by birth, and that the nationwould not submit to his showing contempt towards their princess. Thenhis majesty deemed it prudent to alter his arrangements, and at thefuture receptions the lord chamberlain was instructed to usher her royalhighness into the presence chamber immediately on her arrival. Afterthat, all her attendants were treated with respect, and the king showedhimself enough of a diplomatist to extend favors that would redound tohis own credit. He called at Campden House and requested Princess Anneand her husband to take possession of St. James's Palace as soon asthey pleased, and further surprised them with the announcement that as agarter had fallen into his possession by the death of Lord Strafford,he intended to bestow it upon his nephew, the Duke of Gloucester. Thisvisit was succeeded by one from Burnet, the Bishop of Salisbury, whocame with the information that a meeting of the Order of the Garterwould be held on the sixth of January, and asked the duke if the thoughtof becoming a knight did not please him. "I am more pleased at theking's favor," was the discreet reply.
It was King William himself who buckled on the little duke's garterand presented the star, both of which he was to wear daily foreverafter,--though that office was usually performed by one of the knights.
After resting for awhile in his mother's room on his return toCampden-House, the duke went to his play-room, where he met HarryScull, his favorite drummer. "Your dream has come true, Harry,"gladly announced the royal boy, displaying his star and garter to hiscompanion, who had dreamed that he saw his commander so adorned.
At this period the duke's malady seems to have been for a timearrested, for he looked well and was full of animal spirits. Thisrendered his mother happier than she had been in many a day, besides shewas residing in the palace of her ancestors, her rank was recognizedby the king and his government, and she regularly received a liberalincome. Windsor Castle was granted to her for her summer residence,though it was occasionally shared by her royal brother-in-law, who hadreserved for his exclusive use Hampton Court and Kensington Palace.There was only one flaw in the happiness of Princess Anne at thisperiod, and that was a report that when the king returned from hissummer campaign there was a probability that he would bring home a Dutchbride.
Meanwhile, the Duke of Gloucester was taken to Windsor, for the firsttime, in company with his parents. The princess ordered Mrs. Atkinsonto show her son the royal apartments in the castle, and to give him adescription of the pictures. The child was particularly pleased with St.George's Hall, and clapped his hands with delight as he declared thatthe noble apartment would be just the place for him to fight his battlesin. Next day four boys were summoned from Eaton School to be the duke'scompanions. They were young Lord Churchill, a mild, good-natured boy,somewhat older than the duke, son of Lord and Lady Marlborough, thetwo Bathursts, and Peter Boscawen. As soon as they appeared, the dukeproposed that a battle should be fought in St. George's Hall, and sentfor all his pikes, swords, and muskets. The music gallery, and thestairs leading to it, were to represent the castle that he meant tobesiege. Mrs. Atkinson and Lewis Jenkins were in attendance, and bothwere expected to take part in the battle. Young Boscawen and PeterBathurst were the enemy, and had been secretly requested not to hurt theduke; but in the heat of the fray the latter lost the sheath fromhis sword, and before he made the discovery had wounded the duke in theneck.
Jenkins stopped the battle to ascertain the nature of the wound; but,staunching the blood with his handkerchief, the youth rushed up thestairs into the enemy's garrison.
When the battle was over, the duke asked Mrs. Atkinson if she had asurgeon near by.
"Oh, yes," she replied, "bustling about to revive the soldiers whopretended to be dead or dying."
"Pray make no jest of it," urged the child, "for Peter Bathurst hasreally wounded me in the battle."
The hurt was bathed and plastered up, and no serious consequenceresulted; but there are not, I fancy, many boys less than seven years ofage who would have continued the game, as the duke did, with the bloodtrickling from a wound. The sight of blood terrifies some children. Notso with the Duke of Gloucester; for when he attended his first hunt atWindsor Park, the deer's throat was cut, after it had been shot, justat his feet. Then Mr. Massam, his page, dipped his hand in the blood andsmeared it all over the duke's face. This excited great surprise; buton being informed that such was the custom at first seeing a deer slain,the mischievous little duke dipped his hands in the blood and besmearedthe faces of Jenkins and all the boys.
Princess Anne shrieked with terror one day when walking in the parkwith her husband to see her son roll down the hill of one of the castlefortifications, but he reassured her by declaring that when he wasengaged in battles and sieges he would have to get used to descendingsuch places. Prince George laughed, and always encouraged the child tosuch exploits with the hope of thereby making him more hardy.
July 24, being the Duke of Gloucester's birthday, a grand banquetwas given at St. George's Hall, at the king's expense, to the Knights ofthe Garter. The princess was present, and had the proud satisfactionof seeing her son walk in procession with the other knights from St.George's Chapel to the hall. All the gentlemen wore their splendid robesof the order, and took their places at the long tables in accordancewith their rank. The little duke appeared in his plumes and all thegorgeous regalia that had been provided for him, and comported himselfamong the full-grown knights with wonderful dignity.
In the evening the princess gave a splendid ball, and received all thenobility, many of whom came from different parts of the country to dohonor to the occasion. The town of Windsor was illuminated, bells rangout merrily, and the bright blaze of bonfires lit up the surroundingscene for a great distance. There were besides fireworks on the terrace,which delighted the young duke beyond everything. The entertainmentconcluded with a musical drama, written expressly to celebrate thebirthday.
A few days later another festival to celebrate the wedding anniversaryof Princess Anne and Prince George of Denmark was held. In the morningthe royal couple went to visit their son, and found him superintendingthe firing of his little cannon in honor of the day. Three rounds werefired, which almost deafened the royal mamma, and excited her fearsbecause of the quantity of gunpowder the duke had at his command. Afterthis salute the boy approached his parents of his own accord, and,making a profound bow, said: "Papa, I wish you and mamma unity, peace,and concord,--not for a time, but forever." Of course the parents werecharmed with the courtesy and respect of their little pet, and embracedhim warmly.
Some hours later, Jenkins said to him: "You made a fine compliment totheir royal highnesses to-day, sir," whereupon the child returned,with gravity, "It was no compliment; it was sincere." Thus the littlefellow constantly made remarks far beyond his years, and excited thewonder and admiration of all who surrounded him.
[[A.D. 1697.]] At the beginning of the new year great excitementprevailed because of the discovery of a plot against the life of theking. Sir John Fenwick was discovered to be at the head of it, andwas arrested on a charge of high treason. When he found that he was tosuffer death without a regular trial, Sir John gave such extraordinaryevidence against the majority of the nobility, including most of theking's ministers, whom he accused of corresponding with James II., thatit was said if half of the number had been arrested for treason therewould not have been enough left to hang or behead the rest. Marlboroughwas aimed at particularly; but that could have been no surprise toWilliam, who knew that the earl not only wrote himself during QueenMary's lifetime, but induced Princess Anne to do likewise. But hismajesty winked at this accusation, because he was convinced thatpersonal interest would now prompt the princess and her party tocontinue loyal to him. Fenwick was beheaded on Tower Hill, and all hisrevelations were quietly ignored, but the king took pains to possesshimself of all Sir John's private papers. He also kept a remarkablesorrel shooting pony that had belonged to him; but of this animal weshall hear more in the future.
Twelve gentlemen were executed the same year for plotting to waylayWilliam and kill him, in the midst of his guards, on his return froma hunting expedition. The public were on the alert for any bit ofnews they could glean, and excitement ran high during the trialsand executions, which took place at intervals throughout the year.Associations were formed for the protection of the king, and allsorts of addresses, containing assurances of loyalty, were sent to himfrom corporations and private individuals. The Duke of Gloucester wasone of the latter. He caused one of his soldiers, older than himself, towrite the following document, to which he affixed his signature, for hecould read and write quite well for so young a person:--
_I, your majesty's most dutiful subject, had rather lose my life in yourmajesty's cause than in any man's else, and I hope it will not be longere you conquer France. Gloucester._
Another address from the same source, signed by all his boy-soldiersand the various members of the household, ran thus: "We, your majesty'ssubjects, will stand by you while we have a drop of blood." Suchproceedings on the part of the little duke convinced William III. thatthe princess was bringing up her son as his partisan, and that at leastwas gratifying.
He honored the festival given on the anniversary of Princess Anne'sbirth with his presence, and witnessed the introduction at court ofthe young duke, who appeared in a rich blue velvet coat. All thebutton-holes were studded with diamonds, and each button was composed ofa superb brilliant, some of which had belonged to Queen Mary, and werepresented by the king to her sister after her death.
When the boy had been installed as Knight of the Garter, his majestyhad presented him with a jewel worth seven hundred pounds, which he worealso on this occasion. His flowing white periwig did not detract fromthe beauty of his clear bright complexion and soft blue eyes; and thelittle duke was the centre of attraction, surrounded by a bevy of lordsand ladies, who flocked to her royal highness' drawing-room.
The king was very fond of his little nephew, and, indeed, of allchildren, as this anecdote goes to prove: He was waiting one day ina private room for one of his secretaries, who was rather later thanusual, when a gentle tap was heard on the door. "Who is there?" askedthe king. "Lord Buck," was the reply; whereupon the king arose, openedthe door and beheld a little boy four years of age. It was young LordBuckhurst, son of the Lord High Chamberlain.
"And what does Lord Buck want?" asked William.
"I want you to be my horse; I have waited for you a long time."
With an amiable smile, his majesty took hold of the wagon, and draggedthe little noble up and down the long gallery until he was satisfied.From the matter-of-fact way in which this favor was received by thechild, there was ample proof that King William was not on duty as horsefor the first time.
[[A.D. 1698.]] Up to this year the education of the Duke of Gloucesterhad been left in his mother's charge, because he was by no means strong,and it was not considered advisable to push him too fast. He had nowarrived at the age of eight, and like all other royal children he wouldprobably be given in charge to some great noble or clergyman. His motherdreaded the idea of parting with the delicate child, whom she had rearedwith so much difficulty, and was willing to make any sacrifice ratherthan to do so. Parliament voted the enormous sum of fifty thousandpounds per annum for the education and establishment of the Duke ofGloucester, but the king had power to dispose of the child. This waswhat alarmed the fond mother, for she knew that if he chose to exercisethis power his majesty could annoy her excessively. It was thereforehappiness to find that he only insisted on two points: one was to manageto pay out as little of the fifty thousand pounds per annum, aspossible; the other was that Dr. Burnet, Bishop of Salisbury, shouldfill the post of preceptor. This appointment was by no means agreeableto the princess, but the king was inexorable, and she was forced tosubmit. The duke was to live at Windsor, and the bishop was to have tenweeks of each year to attend to duties that would oblige him to give hispupil a vacation. Strange to say, the Earl of Marlborough was appointedchief governor to the young duke notwithstanding the king's formerhatred of him. But this is not so remarkable as it may at firstappear, if we consider that the majority of the council of nine wereMarlborough's friends, who knew his power and the influence he exercisedover the mind of the heiress to the throne. The appointment wastherefore popular with them, particularly as he was of their number.Then again, instead of believing for a moment that in the event of hisdeath, Marlborough and Princess Anne would desire to recall King Jamesor his son, the king calculated that they would renounce any claim butthat of the Duke of Gloucester, over whose mind the earl would haveestablished an empire, and in whose interest he would betray the distantheir. The appointment of Marlborough was eminently satisfactory to theprincess, and there were few alterations made in the list she sent ofother officers for her son's household.
Lady Marlborough continued in the Princess Anne's household, butafter her husband's lofty appointment she became somewhat arrogant andoverbearing. The princess could not help noticing this change, whichextended even to herself, and sometimes she would let fall a word or twoof complaint to Abigail Hill, an humble relation of Lady Marlborough, towhom she was indebted for her position at court.
[[A.D. 1699.]] During the next year or two Princess Anne continuedher court with unusual splendor, while the little duke studied so hardthat all his vivacity disappeared, and when he was ten years of age hisface had a worn look, old enough for a youth of seventeen at least, andpitiful to behold.
We have said very little about the duke's father, for the simple reasonthat he led an easy, luxurious sort of a life, inoffensive and void ofambition. Somebody said of him:
"That, though he was not quite dead, he had to breathe hard to preventbeing buried, because nobody perceived any other sign of life in him."Perhaps it would be well for mankind if other princes were as quiet;certainly he spared himself a deal of trouble by not interfering withpublic affairs.
We have seen that Bishop Burnet was appointed preceptor to the Dukeof Gloucester; he was at the same time almoner to her majesty, theprincess, and one of the most conceited men that ever lived. He usuallypreached at St. James's, and although Queen Mary had declared that hiswere "thundering long sermons," he could not comprehend why the ladiesat court failed to give him their undivided attention. It seems that thewomen of the seventeenth century would cast sly glances at the beaux inchurch, and examine the costumes of the belles just as they do in thepresent one; but Bishop Burnet would not submit to such disrespecttowards his own sweet self. He wanted every eye fixed on him while hepreached; so, after making several complaints to Princess Anne, he atlast hit upon a remedy which met with her approval. It was to have thepews where the ladies sat so barricaded with high railings that theoccupants could only see beyond them by raising their eyes, and as hewas the only high object when in the pulpit, they must look at him or atno man. Of course this arrangement excited indignation of the fairdamsels no less than of the courtiers, one of whom vented his wrath bythe composition of a ballad that he took good care should come under thenotice of the intermeddling bishop. It ran thus:--
               "When Burnet perceived that the beautiful dames.
               Who flocked to the chapel of holy St. James.
               On their lovers alone their kind looks did bestow.
               And smiled not at him when he bellowed below,
                        To the Princess he went,
                        With a pious intent,
               This dangerous ill in the church to prevent.
               'Oh, madam,' he said, ' our religion is lost,
               If the ladies thus ogle the knights of the toast.
               "'Your highness observes how I labor and sweat,
               Their affections to raise and attention to get;
               And sure when I preach, all the world will agree,
               That their eyes and their ears should be pointed at me
                        But now I can find
                        No beauty so kind,
               My parts to regard or my person to mind;
               Nay, I scarce have the sight of one feminine face
               But those of Old Oxford and ugly Arglass.
               "'These practices, madam, my preaching disgrace.
               Shall laymen enjoy the just rights of my place?
               Then all may lament my condition so hard,
               Who thrash in the pulpit without a reward.
                        Therefore pray condescend
                        Such disorders to end,
               And to the ripe vineyard the laborers send,
               To build up the seats that the beauties may see
               The face of no brawling pretender but me.'
               "The Princess by the man's importunity prest,
               Though she laugh'd at his reasons allowed his request.
               And now Britain's nymphs in a Protestant reign
               Are locked up at prayers like the virgins in Spain."
[[A.D. 1700.]] The eleventh birthday of the Duke of Gloucester wascelebrated at Windsor with the usual rejoicings. The boy reviewed hissoldiers, received and made presents, fired his cannon at intervalsduring the day, and presided over a grand banquet in the evening.His system was very much run down by the strain of hard study, and thisday of excitement proved too much for him. The following morning foundhim with a sick headache and sore throat, and towards night he becamedelirious. The family physician reduced the little duke's vitality stillfurther by bleeding him according to the custom of the times. He grewworse, and there was great lamentation in the royal household becausethe princess's quarrel with Dr. Radcliffe prevented his being summoned,for everybody had confidence in his skill. At last a messenger wasdispatched with a humble request to the doctor to visit the littlesufferer. After a great deal of urging he consented, and pronouncedthe disease scarlet fever. He asked who bled the duke. The physician inattendance replied that he had done so. "Then you have destroyed him,and you may finish him," said Radcliffe, "for I will not prescribe."
Of course the learned man was much censured for wilfully refusing tosave the child, but he knew only too well that all his efforts wouldhave been of no avail. Five days after his birthday festival the littleduke expired.
Lord Marlborough, who had gone to Althorpe, was summoned to the sick bedof his youthful master, but arrived too late.
The bereaved mother watched beside her dying boy to the end, hopingagainst hope; and when nothing remained but his lifeless body, shearose, and with an expression of sad resignation on her countenance,quietly left the room. Then her thoughts were directed towards thefather she had wronged, and she wrote him a letter filled with the mostpenitent expressions, and telling him that she looked upon her cruelloss as a blow from Heaven in punishment of her cruelty towards him.Retribution had come at last! At that moment, when the objectin whom all her hopes were centered lay cold in death, Princess Anneyearned for the sympathy of the parent who had ever been most kind andindulgent to her, and she immediately sent her letter to St. Germain byexpress.
Lord Marlborough forwarded the sad news to King William, but his majestymade no reply for three whole months. The reason for this neglect wasbecause Anne had written to her father, and the king found it out,although it was managed, as she thought, very secretly. William hadalways shown so much affection for his nephew that his failing to sendany message of condolence or sorrow was the more remarkable.
The little duke's remains lay in state in the suite of apartments hehad occupied, and afterwards they were removed to Westminster, to beinterred in Henry VII.'s Chapel. The English ambassador at the court ofFrance was placed in a very embarrassing position, because his sovereigndid not order him how to proceed with regard to the Duke of Gloucester'sdeath. The fact is William was in a fit of temper, possibly causedby the sad event, and so cared not how he perplexed others. Besides,although he had loved the dead boy, he despised the parents, and paid nomore respect to their feelings than if they had lost a favorite dog.At last, after the expiration of two months, he ordered a fortnight'smourning, which was very little. Three months after the death of thelittle duke, King William condescended to write, not to the afflictedparents, but to Lord Marlborough, and this is a copy of the remarkablemissive:--
"I do not think it necessary to employ many words in expressing mysurprise and grief at the death of the Duke of Gloucester. It is sogreat a loss to me, as well as to all England, that it pierces my heartwith affliction."


The same post carried a peremptory order that all the salaries ofthe duke's servants should be cut off from the day of his death.
[[A.D. 1701.]] Thus we see that the king's heart was not so piercedwith affliction as to prevent his having an eye to economy. It was evensuspected that it was the approach of pay-day that prompted him to writeat all; but the Princess Anne was so shocked at the king's meanness thatshe resolved to pay the salaries of her dead boy's servants out of herown purse rather than send them off at a moment's notice. She returnedto St. James's Palace towards the end of the year, bowed down withdesolation and sorrow.
The death of the Duke of Gloucester was not much lamented in thepolitical world, for his existence had been rather an obstacle to thedesigns of the various parties; but to his mother, aside from her deepsorrow, it proved an event of the utmost importance; for even in herown household her position was altered, and she was not treated with thesame deference as before.
Lady Marlborough was the first person by whom the change was madeapparent, though she of all others had most reason to be grateful toPrincess Anne. She had gone with her husband to Althorpe, just a shorttime before the little duke's death, to further a scheme that theyhad made between them. King William's health was so poor that they hadreason to believe it would not be long before Anne would replace himon the throne. When that should occur, it was argued that she would beassisted in the government by certain statesmen, who would shrink fromany cooperation with them, so they planned a strong family alliance thatwould greatly strengthen their influence. They were aided by the slypolitician, Sunderland, and by Lord Godolphin, whose only son had,during the previous year, married their eldest daughter. When thismarriage took place Princess Anne presented the bride with five thousandpounds, and gave a similar sum to Lady Marlborough's younger daughter,Anne Churchill, when she married Sunderland's son.
These two marriages formed the principal features in the Marlboroughscheme for their own advancement when the proper time should come. Forthe purpose of doing away with formality when writing to her favorite,it had been early agreed that the princess should merely be addressed asMrs. Morley, and Lady Marlborough as Mrs. Freeman, which brought themto the same level. Since her bereavement Princess Anne had become morehumble, and Lady Marlborough more imperious. When the latter was absentshe received three or four notes a day, some of which were signed "yourpoor, unfortunate, faithful Morley." But the indulgence and kindnessof the princess had only spoiled the woman, who was so puffed up byprosperity as to render herself positively ridiculous. She even went sofar as to avert her face and turn up her nose when she had any slightoffice to perform for her benefactress, as though there was somethingabout her person that produced disgust. In course of time the princessbegan to notice what others had seen for a long while; but accidentrevealed to her one day the extent to which the ungrateful creaturecould go with her insults.
One afternoon when Princess Anne was at her toilet, she requestedAbigail Hill to fetch her a pair of gloves from the table in theadjoining room. Miss Hill passed into the room designated, leaving thedoor open behind her. There sat Lady Marlborough reading a letter.Miss Hill soon discovered that she had, by mistake, put on her royalhighness' gloves, and gently called her attention to the fact. "Mygoodness!" exclaimed Lady Marlborough, "have I on anything thathas touched the odious hands of that disagreeable woman? Take them awayquickly," and she pulled off the gloves, which she threw violently tothe ground. Miss Hill picked them up without a word, and left the roomclosing the door behind her. Lady Marlborough thus remained in ignorancethat her disgraceful speech had been overheard; but Abigail Hill sawplainly that not a word of it had been lost on the princess, who neverforgot or forgave the disgust manifested by the woman on whom she hadlavished affection and favors. Fortunately, the princess had no otherattendant besides the one she had despatched for the gloves, so theincident remained a secret for the time being. Lady Marlborough wasmade to feel on several occasions that she had seriously offended theprincess, but was at a loss to know how or when. She could not readyhave felt the disgust she expressed, because Princess Anne was renownedall over Europe for the beauty and delicacy of her hands and arms; butperhaps it was envy.
Princess Anne had not taken off mourning for her son when news arrivedof the death of her father. This event did not cause her a great dealof sorrow, nor did she think fit to take the slightest notice of therequest he made in his farewell letter to her, that when William shoulddie she would make way for her brother on the throne.
King William was at Loo, in Holland, when James II.'s message offorgiveness was delivered to him, and he was so impressed by it that hesat in moody silence the entire day. That was his way of showing thathe was painfully affected; but it did not remove the ill-feeling he felttowards the dead king for refusing to permit him to adopt his son,--arequest he had made after the death of the Duke of Gloucester. Neitherdid it prevent his issuing a bill accusing the young Prince ofWales, a boy of twelve, of high treason. But he put on mourning for hisuncle, and ordered his footmen and coaches to appear in black. All thenobles and the court of England imitated him, and mourning became thefashion.
His majesty returned to England, as usual, in the autumn, and leftthe Earl of Marlborough in command of his military forces in Holland,feeling certain, as he said, that the talents of that general wouldenable him to continue in his stead should his death occur. And it didnot seem far off, for William had been seriously ill, the effects ofwhich had so reduced his already enfeebled frame that all who saw himknew he was not long for this world. Nevertheless, he busied himselfwith preparations for involving England in a war with France, theobject being to divide Spain into three parts, to be claimed by Austria,Holland, and England. This was to prevent Louis XIV. from becoming toopowerful by his influence over his grandson, who was heir to the Spanishthrone.
It was no other than John Fenwick's sorrel pony that brought William'swarlike projects to a close. And this is how he did it: His majesty wasfond of the pretty animal, and rode on him daily while superintendingthe excavation of a canal in Hampden Court grounds. It was on thetwenty-first of January that he was riding about as usual, when suddenlythe pony stuck one foot in a mole hill and fell, throwing his majestyover on his right shoulder, and breaking his collar bone. Some workmenassisted him to rise, and carried him to the palace, where the brokenbone was soon set. The accident might not have proved serious had notWilliam, with his usual obstinacy, insisted on driving to Kensingtonthat night. The jolting of the carriage displaced the fractured bone,and he arrived in a state of exhaustion and suffering. The opera-


tion had to be repeated, but it was several days before the patientcould move. Even then his mind was filled with revenge, for he sent amessage to parliament urging them to lose no time in passing thecharge of high treason against little James Stuart, that had been underconsideration since the preceding January. The very last act of thismighty monarch was the signing of this bill, to which he affixed hisstamp a few hours before his death.
On the first of March the royal sufferer was seized with cramps, butimproved sufficiently to be able to walk in the gallery of KensingtonPalace a few days later. Feeling fatigued from the exercise, he threwhimself on a lounge and fell asleep in front of an open window. Twohours later he awoke with a chill, the precursor of death. Both thePrince and Princess of Denmark made repeated efforts to see the dyingking, but to the very end he framed his lips into an emphatic "no!"every time the request was made. No one was admitted to the sick-roombesides physicians and nurses, excepting the old favorites Bentinck, andKeppel, Earl of Albemarle. The latter arrived from a mission toHolland just before the king lost his speech, and gave his royal masterinformation of the progress of his preparations for the commencement ofwar in the Low Countries. For the first time the dying warrior listenedto such details with cold indifference, and at their close merelysaid: "I draw towards my end." Then handing Keppel the keys of hiswriting-desk, he bade that favorite take possession of the twentythousand guineas it contained, and directed him to destroy all theletters enclosed in a certain cabinet.
The next morning, when Bentinck entered the room, the king wasspeechless but conscious. He took his old friend's hand and pressed itto his heart for several minutes, and then expired. After his deatha bracelet of Queen Mary's hair, tied with black ribbon, was found onhis left arm.
William III. was fifty-one years old, and had reigned thirteen years.



CHAPTER XIII.
|Bishop Burnet had watched at Kensington with a host of other clergymenand lords for the king's last gasp, and then hastened to St. James'sPalace to be the first to prostrate himself before the new queen. But hewas disappointed; for the Earl of Essex, lord of the bedchamber, whoseduty it really was to communicate the news, had forestalled him. Burnethad never been popular with Anne, and on her accession he was treatedwith marked indifference, and turned out of his lodgings at court.
[[A.D. 1702.]] All was business and bustle on that Sunday thatwitnessed the death of William III. The queen was receiving the crowd ofpoliticians that filled her antechamber, anxious for a private audiencebefore her recognition by the privy council took place.
Among others, the queen's old uncle, the Earl of Clarendon, sent in hisname and requested "admittance to his niece."
Her majesty's reply was, "That if he was prepared to take the oath ofallegiance to her as sovereign she was willing to receive him."
Queen Anne answered thus because she remembered the nature of heruncle's former conversations with her, and knew that he had come tourge her to make way for her brother, the Prince of Wales. His replyconfirmed this, for he said:
"No, I come to talk to my niece; I shall take no other oath than Ihave taken." He remained true to this decision to the day of his death.
But Queen Anne had another uncle, who was not quite so loyal to KingJames's son; this was Lord Rochester, who had been one of Queen Mary'sministers of state, and shared with Anne the government of _her_ kingdomlikewise.
Both houses of parliament met and made speeches suitable to theoccasion, then presented addresses of congratulation to the queen on heraccession. She received them with much grace and dignity; and althoughshe did not say much, everybody was impressed by the remarkablesweetness of her voice, which possessed a magic charm.
A general mourning was ordered by the privy council for the deceasedking; but as Queen Anne was already wearing black for her father, shechose purple to distinguish this occasion, and appeared in that colorthe day after William III. died.
On the eleventh of March Queen Anne went in solemn state, attendedby Lady Marlborough and two other ladies, to the House of Lords. Sheascended the throne in her royal robes, and made an address that hadbeen prepared by her ministers, concluding with a promise to do all inher power for the happiness and prosperity of England. Lord Marlboroughcarried the sword of state before her royal highness, who, at the closeof the session, returned with Prince George to St. James's Palace.
The Scotch council was summoned, and Anne was proclaimed by Lord Lyon,king-at-arms, as Anne I. Queen of Scotland. Then her majesty appointedApril 23 for her coronation; and parliament voted her the same revenuethat had been granted to King William.
There were those who were delighted at the accession of Queen Anne; butthe Dutch colony at Kensington were not of the number. The body ofKing William had been embalmed and removed to the prince's chamber atWestminster, where it lay in state; and the queen, with her husband,immediately took possession of the royal apartments at Kensington. Therewas something repulsive in this, though the room in which the king hadbreathed his last remained undisturbed for many years.
After a great deal of discussion it was decided that the intermentof King William's body should take place privately, and April 12, atmidnight, was the time appointed.
The procession started from Kensington, and was headed by an openchariot with the customary wax effigy seated as though the coffin hadbeen beneath; but it was only placed there when the procession reachedWestminster.
During the funeral service the body was deposited in Henry VIII.'sChapel, and afterwards it was interred in the same vault with Queen MaryII.
Among her appointments, Queen Anne made the Duke of Devonshirelord-steward of her household; the Earl of Jersey, lord-chamberlain;Sir Edward Seymour, comptroller; and Peregrine Bertie, vice-chamberlain.Prince George was appointed to the high office of commander-in-chief ofall the forces, both by sea and land. Lord Go-dolphin requested that hermajesty would be pleased to reinstate Dr. Radcliffe; but she replied,"No! Radcliffe shall never send me word again when I am ill that myailments are only vapors." Lady Marlborough used her influence to haveBentinck expelled from his office as keeper of the park at Windsor,with the least possible delay; for he had never been friendly to eitherherself or the queen, and such a chance for revenge could scarcely beoverlooked.
The public mind was soon occupied with the approaching coronation.Prince George was to take no part in it as sovereign, but in theprevious reign he had been created Duke of Cumberland,--a title thatplaced him at the head of the list of peers, and gave him precedence ofthem all.
At eleven o'clock on coronation morning the queen was carried in hersedan chair from St. James's to Westminster Hall, where she rested ina private room while the heralds marshalled the several classes ofnobility according to their rank. Prince George of Denmark was precededby the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the lord keeper of the GreatSeal. He walked just in front of the queen with her state attendants,garter-king-at-arms, the lord mayor, and the high steward of England.The queen wore on her head a gold band set with costly gems, and hertrain was borne by the Duchess of Somerset, assisted by four youngladies of the bed-chamber, and the lord chamberlain. But this train mustin some way have been made to hang from her majesty's chair, for she wassuffering so much from gout in her feet that she could not walk in theprocession. These attendants and train-bearers conducted her from thewaiting-room to the grand hall, where she was placed beneath the canopynear the table, on which were spread the regalia. Lord Carlisle, theDuke of Devonshire, and the lord high-constable stood in readiness todistribute the various articles on the table to the persons appointed tocarry them whenever her majesty should give the order. As soon as this,part of the ceremony was performed, the procession moved on to theAbbey, the path all the way to the royal platform in the church beingcovered with blue cloth, and strewn with evergreens and flowers. Acompany of guards lined the walk, consequently the cloth was not tomto bits to be distributed among the rabble, as had been the caseat previous coronations. From Westminster Hall to the Abbey thetrain-bearers were, as before, the Duchess of Somerset,--a personalfriend to the queen, and wife of the nearest relative of the bloodroyal then in England,--Lady Elizabeth Seymour, Lady Mary Hyde, and LadyMary Pierrepoint, then a girl of thirteen, who later was known in theliterary world as Lady Mary Wortley Montague. The queen was escorted byLord Jersey, supported by the Bishops of Durham and Exeter, and guardedby the late king's favorite, Keppel, Earl of Albemarle, who was stillretained as captain of the royal guard. He was the only member of KingWilliam's Dutch colony who had ever shown civility to the queen, andshe showed her gratitude by continuing him in office. The coronationceremony was conducted on the same plan as all the others we haverecorded, therefore it is unnecessary to repeat the details. The ringused on this occasion was a superb ruby, on which was engraved the crossof St. George. It was placed on the fourth finger of her majesty's righthand. The ceremony concluded with the peers, archbishops, and prelates,headed by the Duke of Cumberland, paying homage to the queen. This wasdone by kissing her left cheek, and touching her crown while her pardonwas read, and medals of silver and gold were distributed among thepeople. A grand anthem by the choir, accompanied by instrumental music,followed; then the trumpets sounded, and all the people shouted, "Godsave Queen Anne! Long live Queen Anne! May the queen live forever!"
At the banquet in the evening Prince George of Denmark sat at hermajesty's left hand, and care was taken that tables should be providedfor members of the house of commons, who had complained of beingneglected at the coronation banquet of William and Mary. On the whole,the ceremony was eminently satisfactory from beginning to end, evento the thieves who stole all the plate used at her majesty's table inWestminster Hall, as well as the finest of the table linen. Shortlyafter her coronation Queen Anne knighted Simon Harcourt, andappointed him solicitor-general; and her uncle, Lord Rochester, waschosen for her prime minister. It was with the assistance and advice ofthis uncle that Queen Anne performed an act of benevolence that has madeher name venerated in the Church of England ever since. Certain sums ofmoney that she had a right to claim for every office she conferred inthe church, she applied, instead, towards a fund for increasing thesalaries of some of the inferior members of the clergy who were sopoorly paid that they were scarcely able to live. Originally, the moneyso claimed had been for the support of crusades, but later it went tothe crown, and the clergy were taxed for their whole profit of the firstyear, and one-tenth of the annual gain forever after. So relieved ofthis tax, and with their salaries increased besides, the clergy of theChurch of England had reason to be grateful to their sovereign. Thisfund received the name of "Queen Anne's bounty," which it has borne tothe present day.
Throughout Queen Anne's reign there were so many contests that it willbe necessary sometimes to mention the two parties between whom theyoccurred, though as little as possible will be said on the subject ofpolitics, and none of the dry details and intricacies of the variousprojects shall be recounted. The two powerful parties to which we referwere called Whigs and Tories, and probably no one will object to knowinghow they were distinguished.
In the reign of Queen Anne the policy of the Whigs was to keep up aperpetual war against France, in order to prevent the son of James II.from claiming his right to the throne of England. They were opposedto the Church of Rome and equally so to the reformed Catholic or "HighChurch" of England. Though the queen was the acknowledged head of thechurch, they desired that her power to fill vacancies should be bestowedon the prime minister.
The Tories, on the other hand, supported the sovereign in her rightto appoint church dignitaries, and were opposed to the so-called "LowChurch" party. They were generally considered Jacobites, and wouldgladly have been such if the Prince of Wales had not been a RomanCatholic.
Now that we have shown the distinction between these two parties, anyfuture reference to them will be clearly understood.
With Queen Anne fairly established on the throne, Lady Marlborough wasat the very height of her glory, because she still retained unboundedinfluence over her majesty, and had a voice in every appointment. Sheeven gave herself credit for many praiseworthy acts of the queen's,whether she deserved it or no. For example, she assured her friends thatthe command issued by the queen forbidding the sale of places in theroyal household was really her own order, though it was probably no suchthing. This was a French custom that had been introduced into Englandwith the Restoration, whereby places were purchased of the formerpossessor without granting the sovereign any choice in the matterwhatever. A man sold his position to the highest bidder, and felt notthe slightest shame at pocketing the proceeds, nor was any privacyobserved in the proceeding. It was a very injurious practice, and byno means insured good servants, so whether its abolition was due to thequeen or Lady Marlborough, or both, it was certainly wise.
Shortly after Queen Anne's accession her husband, Prince George, wasattacked with asthma, which had such a bad effect on him that change ofair was recommended, and their majesties started on a tour through thewest of England. Bristol was one of their stopping-places, and whilethere Prince George started out one morning, _incognito_, with anofficer for companion, to view the sights. After walking about for anhour or so, the prince went on the Exchange, and remained thereuntil all the merchants had left excepting one John Duddlestone, acorset-maker. This good man stood off and stared at the prince, and thenhesitatingly approached, and with a shy, awkward manner, asked: "Are you,sir, the husband of our Queen Anne, as folks say you are?"
"Such is, indeed, the fact," replied the prince. "Then," continued JohnDuddlestone, "I have seen with great concern that none of the chiefmerchants on 'Change have invited your highness home; but it is not forwant of love or loyalty: it is merely because they are afraid to presumeto address so great a man. But _I_ think that the shame to Bristol wouldbe great indeed if the husband of her majesty the queen were obliged,for want of hospitality, to dine at an inn; I therefore beg your royalhighness, humble though I am, to accompany me home to dinner and bringyour soldier-officer along. I can offer your highness a good piece ofroast beef, a plum-pudding, and some ale of my wife's own brewing, ifthat be good enough."
Prince George was charmed with this original style of invitation, andaccepted it with gratitude, though his dinner had been ordered atthe White Lion. Arriving at his house in Corn street, worthy JohnDuddlestone called up from the foot of the stairs, "Wife, wife! put ona clean apron and come down, for the queen's husband and asoldier-gentleman have come to dine with us."
Dame Duddlestone soon appeared in a clean, blue check apron, neat calicofrock, and snowy cap, curtseying and smiling as she entered the room,her full face all aglow with the excitement occasioned by the honor ofsuch visitors. Her table was soon arranged, and the prince did amplejustice to the meal, well knowing that he could not


please his host and hostess better than by eating heartily of whatthey set before him.
"Do you ever go up to London?" he asked in the course of the dinner.
"Oh, yes," answered the host; "I sometimes go there to buy whalebonesfor the corsets I manufacture."
When the prince took his leave he gave John Duddlestone a card, andtold him "the next time he went to London to take his wife along, andto be sure to bring her to court," adding "that if he would present thatcard at Windsor Castle it would insure his admission."
Sure enough, when, a few weeks later, a supply of whalebone was needed,John actually took his good wife behind him on a pack-horse, andjourneyed to London. Armed with the prince's card, he presented himselfat Windsor Castle, was received by Prince George, and with his wifeclinging to his arm, introduced into the presence of Queen Anne. Onlya few words were necessary to recall to her majesty the circumstancePrince George had related on his return from Bristol. She cordiallythanked the good-hearted couple for their hospitality to her husband,and, in return, invited them to dine with her, adding that thecourt-dresses which were required for the occasion, would be furnishedby the officers of her household; but the visitors were required tochoose their own material. Both selected purple velvet. The suits wereaccordingly made, and worn at the royal dinner party, when the queenpresented the Duddlestone pair "as the most loyal persons in the wholecity of Bristol."
After dinner her majesty surprised John Duddlestone by requesting himto kneel down before her. He obeyed, when taking a sword and laying itgently on his head, she said: "Stand up, Sir John."
Having knighted him, Queen Anne offered him a government position,or a sum of money, whichever he preferred, but he refused both, saying:"Wife and I want nothing, and we have fifty pounds of our savings outat interest, besides, judging from the number of people about yourmajesty's house, your expenses must be heavy enough." This honest replypleased the queen so much that she presented the newly-constituted LadyDuddlestone with the gold watch that hung at her side. This mark ofroyal favor so delighted the good dame that whenever she appeared inthe streets of her native town afterwards the watch was sure to be seenhanging from her blue apron-string.
Although Queen Anne could not forget nor forgive the insulting remarksabout herself that she had heard from the lips of Lady Marlborough, shedid not find it easy to steel her heart against a woman whom she hadloved for thirty years. There is no doubt that she had fully determinedto part with both her and her husband, but meanwhile intended that thefavorite should observe no change. The dearly-beloved "Mrs. Freeman"should have all the advantages her ambition and avarice had sought, andafter both she and her husband had obtained all they desired of wealthand title they should be dismissed.
The queen went to St. James's Palace in time to open parliament, leavingLady Marlborough at Windsor, because she did not desire her attendanceat the grand state visit to the city. But her majesty wrote "Dear Mrs.Freeman" in the most caressing terms, and in one of her letters shesaid: "It is very sad for your poor, unfortunate, faithful Morley tothink that she has so very little in her power to show you how sensibleshe is of all Lord Marlborough's kindness, especially when he deservesall that a rich crown can give; but since there is nothing else at thistime, I hope you will give me leave, as soon as he comes, to make him aduke." Lady Marlborough was not so pleased at this proposition asQueen Anne supposed she would be; the dukedom was all very fine, butno provision for the support of the title was mentioned, and theMarlboroughs were by no means rich. The letter dropped from the lady'shand as though she had read news of a death, but the lord was moregrateful; for the new distinction increased the respect that theGerman princes in Flanders entertained for him, and, as he wascommander-in-chief of the allied forces, it was important that he shouldbe esteemed. He had not yet achieved the military glory that has madehim one of the heroes of history.
Some discussion had been going on between Lady Marlborough and the queenabout the creating of four new peers, because the ministry had resolvedthat they should be Tories, and Lady Marlborough objected. At last, byway of compromise, the queen consented to add Mr. Hervey to the number;but, as he was a Whig, the newly-made nobles refused to have their namesassociated with his, and so the poor queen was in a dilemma. She wrotethe haughty favorite a most humble letter, in which she said: "I cannothelp being extremely concerned that you are so partial to the Whigs,because I would not have you and your poor, unfortunate, faithful Morleydiffer in opinion in the least thing."
There was to be a grand dinner on Lord Mayor's day, which the Queenand Prince George were to attend, so for the encouragement of her Torypartizans, her majesty preferred that her favorite should not appear ather side on that occasion; she therefore concluded the letter we havereferred to above, with this sentence: "Since you have staid so long atWindsor, I wish now for your own sake that you would stay until afterLord Mayor's day; for if you are in town you can't avoid going to theshow, and being in the country is a just excuse, and, I think, onewould be glad of any way to avoid so troublesome a business. I am atthis time in great haste, and therefore can say no more to my dear,_dear_ Mrs. Freeman, but that I am most passionately hers."
The queen had another reason for desiring Lady Marlborough's absence.It was this: The Duke of Ormond and Sir George Rooke had won a grandvictory at Vigo, and so the Tory party were greatly elated. This enragedLady Marlborough to such a degree that there was no telling how far shemight go in giving expression to her displeasure, and she was safer at alittle distance.
Lord Marlborough returned from the continent in November, after havinggained several victories and captured some towns in Flanders. The queenwas so pleased with his success that she showed herself a little tooeager to reward him; therefore when her majesty sent a message to thehouse of commons declaring her intention to create Lord Marlborough aduke, and requesting that a pension of five thousand pounds per annummight be secured to him and his heirs, it was regarded with disfavor.After some warm debate, it was decided "that Lord Marlborough'sservices, although considerable, had been sufficiently rewarded;" so,although the title was granted, the revenue was refused. The consequencewas that Lady Marlborough hated the Tories worse than ever, although tenyears before she had belonged to their party.
With the hope of soothing the newly-made duchess, her majesty wrote: "Icannot be satisfied with myself without doing something towards makingup what has been so maliciously hindered in parliament, and therefore, Idesire, my dear Mrs. Freeman and her husband to be so kind as to acceptof two thousand pounds a year out of my private purse instead of thefive, and this can excite no envy, for nobody need know it." Theangry duchess refused to be pacified, and rejected the queen's offerwith scorn. But this was her regular plan of action to avoid appearingunder obligations to her majesty; she always refused an offer the firsttime it was made, but never failed to claim it later. So it was in thiscase, for she not only pocketed the two thousand pounds per annumwhen she had charge of the queen's privy purse, but demanded, besides,portions for her daughters to the amount of thirty thousand pounds.Queen Anne fell completely in the power of the designing duchess, whoconstantly abused the Tories to her majesty, and accused her of beingtheir accomplice. More than half of "_the crowned slave's_" time wasspent in the degrading occupation of soothing the domestic tyrant, whoexacted the most servile attentions, and complained, like a spoiledchild, if she did not get everything she wanted, though this shegenerally managed, by hook or by crook.
[[A.D. 1703.]] In the month of December the fleet of Charles of Austria,who was on his way to take possession of the throne of Spain, appearedoff the west coast of England. The Duke of Somerset was immediatelydespatched to Portsmouth to receive the royal stranger, and conduct himto Windsor, where the queen had gone on purpose to entertain him. But hewas first invited to rest while at the duke's residence on the coast ofPetworth, and there he was met by the prince-consort, who had with greatdifficulty, and three or four upsets of his carriage, made the journeyacross the bad roads.
The whole party arrived at Windsor at night, and were received bytorchlight. Three noblemen awaited the King of Spain as he alighted fromhis coach, and the Earl of Jersey led him up the stairs, at the headof which he was met by Queen Anne, and conducted to her bed-chamberaccording to the etiquette of the times. An hour later a statesupper was served, when the royal guest was placed at the queen's righthand, while Prince George sat on her left. At the conclusion of thefeast a formal procession conducted King Charles to his sleepingapartment, where his own attendants awaited him.
The next day Queen Anne returned the call of her guest, who, having beenpreviously informed of her intention, met her at his drawing-room doorwith a profusion of compliments, protesting against the trouble-she tookin coming to him. However, she was not to be outdone in politeness, sopersisted in entering his room, where she spent about fifteen minutes.Then, at a signal from one of the courtiers, King Charles rose andconducted her majesty to a grand state dinner. During the progress ofthe meal the court was entertained by a vocal and instrumental concert.Dinner was served at three, and at its conclusion everybody playedcards, basset being the favorite game, until supper was announced, whichclosed the hospitalities of the day.
Her majesty had, during the interval between dinner and supper,presented several ladies of the highest rank to the king, and he hadsaluted each with a kiss, which was the privilege of his station. But agrand act of courtesy was reserved for the royal favorites, the Duke andthe Duchess of Marlborough. To the former, King Charles presented hissword, saying at the same time, "that he had nothing worthier of hisacceptance, for he was a poor prince, who had little more than his swordand his mantle." After supper he prevailed on the duchess to give himthe napkin which it was her duty to present to the queen, and he heldit while her majesty washed her hands. On returning it to the Duchessof Marlborough, the king placed a superb diamond ring on her finger. Hethen gave his hand to the queen, and led her to her bed- chamber,where he took formal leave, and expressed his intention to depart earlythe next morning. Prince George meant to escort the royal guest back tohis ship at Portsmouth, but as he was far from well the Duke of Somersetwas appointed to perform that office in his stead; and the Admiral,Sir George Rooke, was ordered to provide the proper number of ships toescort him to Spain.
[[A.D. 1704.]] The queen's birthday this year fell on Sunday. Shereceived the usual compliments, and held a splendid reception on thefollowing day, after which Dry-den's play, entitled "All for Love, orAnthony and Cleopatra," was performed before her majesty and the wholecourt. This was succeeded on the next evening by the tragedy of Hamlet,Prince of Denmark, in honor of Prince George. There were various otherentertainments during the week; and we must not omit to say that noticesof them were given in the daily papers, of which there were several inthis reign.
So much dissension arose in parliament, chiefly on account of churchmatters, that some of the Tories became disgusted and withdrew fromoffice. The most important of these were the queen's uncle, LordRochester, the Duke of Buckingham, and Lord Dartmouth. This gave theWhig party the upper hand, and the Duchess of Marlborough thoroughlycontrolled and led them. Prince George was a Whig at heart, though hemanaged to keep this fact secret; however, the duchess knew it perfectlywell, and rejoiced at it.
Now we must take a look at Queen Anne to see what sort of a ruler shemade, for thus far we have touched lightly on this important matter,or given the Duchess of Marlborough the precedence. As far as personalaffection goes, this queen was the most popular one who had occupied theEnglish throne; the lower classes always called her "our good QueenAnne," and do so to this very day.

It is to be accounted for in this way: In the first place, her parentswere both English, and she herself was in every way like a middle-classEnglishwoman, because of her very limited education. She was acomfortable sort of a matron, the last of the Stuarts, and by nomeans disposed to govern arbitrarily. Then she was, as we have seen,exceedingly generous to the church, and her reign witnessed a series-ofcontinental victories. No wonder that the populace called her "goodQueen Anne." Strange to say, although her majesty was never known toread a book, and passed a large part of her time at card-playing, poetryand science awakened into new life in her reign, and many of the writersdelighted to sound her praises. She probably did not appreciatetheir work, but she patronized men of letters, it may be for love ofapprobation. The number of learned men of Queer. Anne's reignexceeded that of Elizabeth, and represented every branch of art,science, and literature. It included no Shakespeare, it is true; butthere were Newton, Wren, Locke, Hogarth, Congreve, Colley, Cibber, Pope,Swift, Gay, Addison, Steele, and a host of others. We must not omitto mention Defoe, because every child will connect his name withthat delightful romance, "Robinson Crusoe." It was on account of theexistence of such a bevy of luminaries that Queen Anne's reign wasentitled the Augustan age of England.
That reign witnessed the beginning of periodical papers, for there werethree, the "Tattler," "Spectator," and "Guardian," edited by Addison andSteele.
The "Tattler" contained accounts of the political events of the day,and was placed on her majesty's breakfast-table, with the hope that shewould occasionally read it, but she is not supposed ever to havedone so. The "Ladies' Diary, or Women's Almanack" was another of theperiodicals published in Queen Anne's reign, that have since become sonumerous. It began by containing articles that are of most interest towomen in general, but is now a mathematical periodical, which women arenot likely to care for.
We have mentioned the continental victories that distinguished thisreign. The most splendid of them all was the battle of Blenheim, newsof which was brought to Windsor Castle in August by Colonel Parkes,aid-de-camp to his grace, the Duke of Marlborough. This glorious victorywas celebrated with unusual splendor.
What shall we say of the hero of the great victory thus celebrated?Perhaps Thackeray has given the best description. He says: "Before thegreatest obstacle or the most trival ceremony; before a hundred thousandmen drawn in battalia, or a peasant slaughtered at the door of hisburning hovel; before a carouse of German lords, or a monarch's court,or a cottage table where his plans were laid, or an enemy's batteryvomiting flame and death, and strewing corpses round about him,--hewas always cold, calm, resolute, like fate. He performed a treason or acourt-bow; he told a falsehood as black as Styx as easily as he paid acompliment or spoke about the weather. He was as calm at the mouthof the cannon as at the door of a drawing-room. He would cringe to ashoe-black or he would flatter a minister or a monarch; be haughty, behumble, threaten, repent, weep, grasp your hand or stab you wheneverhe saw occasion. But yet those of the army who knew him best, andhad suffered most from him, admired him most of all, and had perfectconfidence in him as the first captain of the world."
After the Blenheim victory the enthusiasm for the duke was very great;even those who hated him and those whom he had cheated were ready togreet him with frantic cheers.
The queen informed the house of commons that she desired to present thepalace and grounds of Woodstock to the great hero and his heirs forever,and the act was passed a few weeks later. Her majesty ordered a portraitin miniature to be painted of the duke, which was sur-rounded bybrilliants valued at eight thousand pounds, and the picture itselfwas covered with a diamond instead of glass. This magnificent gift waspresented to the Duchess of Marlborough as a souvenir of the victory ofBlenheim.
It need scarcely be said that while her husband stood so high in theroyal favor, the influence of the Duchess of Marlborough remainedunabated, and she compelled the queen to appoint all her officers ofgovernment from the Whig ranks. When her majesty hesitated, theupstart tyrant would vulgarly exclaim: "Lord, madam! it _must_ be so!"Thus she secured for her friend, William Cowper, the high post of keeperof the Great Seal. The privilege of disposing of the church livings hadbelonged to the sovereign, but Lord Keeper Cowper now claimed it, andsubsequently it was taken out of the hands of the crown entirely. TheChurch of England was never in greater danger of destruction than duringQueen Anne's reign, because most of the dignitaries had been connectedwith some species of dissent. The prince consort was a Dissenter; but,worst of all, the violent duchess, her majesty's favorite and ruler,headed a strong band of free-thinkers, who hated the church.
[[A.D. 1705.]] In April her majesty, accompanied by her husband, madean excursion to Cambridge. She was received by the Duke of Somerset, whowas then chancellor of the university, and attended an exhibition, whereshe distributed honorary degrees among the noblemen and gentlemen ofher court. But the most memorable of Queen Anne's actions connectedwith this visit was the bestowing of knighthood on Dr. Isaac Newtonat Trinity College. After holding a grand reception, dining at TrinityHall, and attending divine service at the beautiful chapel of King'sCollege, the royal party returned to Newmarket, where her majesty made along sojourn.
[[A.D. 1706.]] Another great victory was won at Ramilies by the Duke ofMarlborough, and another splendid thanksgiving procession took placeat St. Paul's to celebrate it. At this period all the great officesof state were in the hands of the Marlborough family. The last of theappointments was the result of a serious contest between her majesty andthe duchess, in which the latter came off victorious, as usual. Thiswas the nomination of her son- in-law, Lord Sunderland, to theimportant office of secretary of state. When the queen yielded thispoint, the commander-in-chief and the lord treasurer were, one ason-in-law, the other father of a son-in-law of this ambitious couple.Their connections filled lucrative posts, besides, their daughters wereladies of the bed-chamber, and the mother herself, as mistress of therobes and groom of the stole, governed all the officials and the queeninto the bargain. Never was this creature more insolent than when suchwas the state of affairs. She had contrived, by fair means or by foul,to appropriate the enormous income of ninety thousand pounds of thepublic funds, and the poor queen was miserable on account of what shehad been made to suffer at the hands of the woman who was indebted toher for all she had, and for all she was. When she could no longerfail to perceive that the affection of her royal mistress had becomeestranged, the duchess began to inquire what new favorite had interposedto create ill feeling; for it was not in the nature of this woman toblame herself for anything.
She could not fix upon any one until the regular season for thedistribution of the queen's cast-off clothing came around; then AbigailHill, her cousin, excited her suspicion. Although the duchess pretendedto act with perfect justice in dividing the old gowns, mantles, andhead-dresses among the bed-chamber women and dressers of her majesty,they all declared that she invariably kept the best of them for herself.Seeing that Abigail Hill fared badly in the distribution, the queen madeher some liberal presents, as well as Mrs. Danvers, whose dismissal thejealous duchess had frequently urged. But this liberality only increasedthe squabble over the old clothes, and the duchess declared that theywere all hers by right.
Once when this Mrs. Danvers, one of the bed-chamber women, was soill that she believed herself to be dying, she sent for the Duchess ofMarlborough, and implored her to transfer her position with the queento her daughter, who would be entirely unprotected after her death. Theduchess declared her inability to do so, because of her being on badterms with her majesty. Finding that to be the case, the sick woman tolda long story about Abigail Hill's wickedness and general bad behavior,and wound up her narrative by informing her visitor that said Abigailhad long been her secret enemy.
Queen Anne may have been desirous of dispensing charities, but theDuchess of Marlborough held the purse-strings so tightly that she wasunable to do so. When she demanded a small sum of money, that tyrantwould frequently tell her that "it was not fit to squander away moneywhile so heavy a war lasted," though at that very time vast sums of thepublic funds were annually supplied for the building of the duke'shouse at Woodstock. A touching case of distress came under her majesty'snotice in the sad fate of Sir Andrew Foster, a gentleman who had spentmost of his life in the service of James II., and who had been ruined byhis adherence to that sovereign. He died of starvation, in a miserablehut just outside of London, and Queen Anne was so shocked when she heardit that she determined, as it was too late to relieve the unfortunateJacobite, he should at least be decently buried. For this object she wasforced to borrow twenty guineas of Lady Fretchville, for she couldnot command so large a sum herself; and yet the Marlboroughs were thendrawing sixty-four thousand pounds per annum from the public purse.Later the sum reached ninety-four thousand pounds.
[[A.D. 1707.]] The queen carried one extremely important point inviolent opposition to the powerful duchess, and that was the unionbetween Scotland and England. This measure was passed in bothcountries, signed and ratified in great state in the presence of theScottish commissioners, the English ministers, and both houses ofparliament. When Queen Anne signed this important ratification she said,"The union with Scotland is the happiness of my reign."
On the same day, April 24, her majesty dissolved the English house ofcommons, and summoned the first united parliament of Great Britain tomeet the following October. The signing of the union was then celebratedby a grand national festival, and a few days later her majesty wentin solemn procession to St. Paul's Cathedral to return thanks for thesuccessful completion of this matter.
But it must not be supposed that the union was brought into workingorder without a struggle, for in the course of a few weeks Scotland wasalmost in a state of open rebellion. It was the queen's policy toextend mildness and mercy to all offenders, which was a great deal moreeffective than shedding blood on the scaffold; for in a very littlewhile she was universally acknowledged as sovereign of both England andScotland.
Sixteen Scottish noblemen represented their country in parliament, andthere was a good deal of jealousy aroused on account of favors shownthem by her majesty. At her accession she had declared, "That her heartwas entirely English," and this sentence was inscribed on some of hermedals, so when she showed partiality to the Scotch an English satiristwrote:--
                   "The queen has lately lost a part
                   Of her 'entirely English heart,'
                   For want of which by way of botch
                   She pieced it up again with Scotch."
For some reason, not necessary for us to inquire into, the Duke ofHamilton was denied a seat in parliament; and in order to consolehim for the injury, Queen Anne consented to stand godmother in person tohis third son. She gave the child her own name, and from his infancyhe was called "Lord Anne." Some years later Lord Anne Hamilton wascelebrated as a valiant soldier.
To return to the palace dissensions. The Duchess of Marlborough becameat last furiously jealous of Abigail Hill, and probably opposed hermarriage, otherwise it would not have been managed so secretly as itwas. She was engaged to Samuel Masham, a page to the queen, and itseems a very undignified proceeding for her majesty to have consented towitness a secret marriage, in a remote part of her palace, between twopeople who were not under obligations of duty to any one unless it washerself. But such was really the arrangement, and only proves that allparties stood in mortal terror of the duchess's wrath. How long thisunion would have remained secret it is impossible to tell, had not thequeen thought proper to dower the bride from her own private purse,and as soon as she demanded the sum she chose to present, of course thewatchful duchess set to work to find out to what purpose it was to beput. She had began to suspect that there was a mystery, and it did nottake her more than a week to ferret it out. No sooner were her spies seton the right track than they made another discovery that was forthwithreported to the duchess with an accuracy and assiduity worthy of abetter cause. It was this: "That Mrs. Masham spent about two hours everyday with the queen in private, while the prince, who was a confirmedinvalid, took his afternoon nap."
Now did the duchess see, at last, who had forestalled her in her devoted"Mrs. Morley's" good graces; she only awaited a favorable opportunity tounbottle the phials of her wrath, and pour them on the heads of boththe offenders. The enormity of the crime shocked her. "I was struckwith astonishment at such an instance of ingratitude," she wrote herhusband, "and should not have believed it had there been any room fordoubt."
In reply to her very exaggerated statement of a trivial affair, theduke wrote some good advice. His letter was sent from Meldest, in SouthGermany, and he said: "The wisest thing is to have to do with as fewpeople as possible. If you are sure Mrs. Masham speaks of business tothe queen, I should think you might, with some caution, tell her of it,which would do good, for she certainly must be grateful, and will mindwhat you say."
The duchess did not heed this advice of her clear-headed husband,but kept herself up to a pitch of excitement at what she called thebarbarity, ingratitude, and wickedness of the queen. She accused her,too, of intrigue, though why the conversations she held with one of herattendants at the bedside of her declining husband should be so calledit is difficult to understand. Her majesty treated Abigail Masham withconfidence and consideration, because she assisted in the care of theprince-consort, who suffered from fearful attacks of asthma, and it wasthis attendant's duty to sleep at night on a pallet in the ante-chamberof her majesty's bed-room, within call.
Not long after the duchess discovered the marriage, when she was alonewith the queen one day, she took her to task for having kept it secret,and told her that it plainly showed a change in her majesty's feelingtowards her. The queen replied, "That it was not _she_ who was changed,but the duchess," and added, "I believe I have begged Masham a hundredtimes to tell you of her marriage, but she would not."
This confession convinced the angry duchess that she had been a subjectof discussion, and she became more indignant than ever to thinkthat so humble a person as her cousin Abigail should presume to speakwith her majesty about so high and mighty a creature as herself. Shedetermined to give the young woman a sound rating, but changed hermind, and wrote her an angry, undignified letter instead. But Sarahof Marlborough was not particularly well educated, and made as graveblunders as did her majesty in her attempts at letter-writing. Mrs.Masham, on the other hand, was a woman of talent, and wrote so well inreply as not only to astonish her correspondent, but to convince herthat with the pen, at least, she was far her superior, and a person whocould ably defend herself against any attack made on paper. Perhapsit would have been well had she explained the accident that caused thequeen to overhear the duchess express her loathing and hatred of herselfthe day when she had put on the gloves by mistake. Abigail Masham mighthave written, "It was your shameful ingratitude, your offensive remarks,that changed her majesty's heart towards you;" but the secret was nothers, and there is no evidence of her having betrayed her royal mistressall the while she served her.
The queen's unwise consent to witness the secret marriage betweenAbigail Hill and Samuel Masham was all the proof the Duchess ofMarlborough needed that she had been supplanted in the royal favor, andfrom that moment whatever change she observed she laid at the door ofher successor. Some one has very wisely said of Mrs. Masham's turningher back on the duchess: "She was her near relative, and the defect ofbase ingratitude seems to run in her family. The duchess should havechosen her watch-dog on the queen, when she became too grand ortoo indolent to perform that needful office, from a better breed."Previous to her majesty's removal to Windsor for the summer, avery odd circumstance occurred, which we will leave the duchess and herwrangling for awhile to relate. It is about Prince Matveof, ambassadorof Peter the Great of Russia. Having been recalled to Russia, the princeattended the queen's levee for the purpose of taking formal leave ofher. No sooner had he left the palace than he was arrested for debt ona writ of Mr. Morton, lace dealer of Covent Garden, and locked up inthe bailiff's house. The noble Russian had fought desperately, withoutseeming to understand why he was seized, and wounded several of thebailiff's men quite seriously. The next day the bill of fifty poundswas paid, and the matter explained; but, as the prince had not hadthe slightest intention of defrauding the tradesman, he was justlyindignant, and left England thoroughly disgusted. When he got home theczar resented the indignity offered to his ambassador by putting a stopto intercourse of trade, adding a threat of declaration of war. QueenAnne entered into an elaborate explanation, and assured the czar thatthe insult did not originate from any wrong intended by her or herministers, but arose from the rudeness of a tradesman. But his Russianhighness was by no means satisfied, so he wrote a very formidabledocument requesting "the high and mighty Princess Anne, Queen of GreatBritain and Ireland, to return him, by bearer, the head of Morton, thelace dealer of Covent Garden, together with the heads and hands of anyof his aids and abettors in the assault upon Prince Matveof that hermajesty might have incarcerated in her dungeons and prisons."
The queen was perfectly amazed at this demand for the heads and hands ofher subjects, and requested her secretary "to assure the czar that shehad not the disposal of any heads in her kingdom excepting thoseforfeited by the infraction of certain laws, which Mr. Morton and hisassistants had not trespassed." The czar either could not, or would not,understand that Englishmen did not have their heads and hands choppedoff at the caprice of the crown, and an angry correspondence wascontinued between the Russian and English governments for two years.At last a happy idea struck the queen, and she sent Mr. Whitworth, agentleman who understood Russian customs, to say, "that although nothinghad been acted against Prince Matveof but what the English law allowed,yet those laws were very bad and inhospitable ones, and that her majestyhad had them repealed, so that his imperial highness's ambassadors couldnever again be subjected to such an injury."
This was no compliment, but a fact; for from that incident laws werecaused to be made that protected ambassadors and their suites fromarrest, which are in force to the present day. Such laws were sadlyneeded during Queen Anne's reign to prevent scenes of violence; forambassadors took precedence according to the supposed rank of thesovereigns they represented. This being the case, the representativesof France and Spain, the two countries that were always at war, had aregular fight, aided by their retinues, at all public processions; theyeven went so far as to cut the traces of each other's coaches, lest theline should be broken and one dash in before the other. It is needlessto say that the London populace immensely enjoyed such contests, and the"roughs" invariably gathered where the "mounseers," as they called them,were most likely to begin the fight. Sometimes they were quite serious,and more than one man lost his life while combating for position.




CHAPTER XIV.
|When her majesty opened parliament in the autumn she made the usualspeech containing entreaties that goodwill and friendship might continueamong all ranks of her subjects, but particularly with regard to thenewly-made union. King William III. had said, "That he did not desirethe experiment of a union with Scotland to be made in his reign, becausehe had not the good fortune to know what would satisfy a Scotchman."This would seem to apply equally to Queen Anne, for the Scotch wereexcessively dissatisfied and were already getting up petitions fordissolving the newly-made union, while the English turned up theirnoses at their northern neighbors, with whom they had no desire to beassociated in parliament.
Public affairs did not seem to occupy Queen Anne's attention more thanprivate ones, for the duchess kept her in a constant state of worry withher threats and her ill-temper; and there was scarcely day when she didnot feel the necessity for sending a letter of explanation and apologyto the tyrant for some imaginary offence, or some omitted honor, eitheron her own part or that of Mrs. Masham. There was at this time a matterof private interest under consideration between her majesty and theduchess. The latter had long before asked for a part of St. JamesPark, on which to build a palace for herself, but as the demand was anunreasonable one, the queen was less generous and compliant thanshe had been on previous occasions. But the duchess had set her heart onthe very spot she had designated, and get it she would at any cost.So she importuned the poor queen, month after month, and made herdispleasure so seriously felt on account of the refusal, that at lastshe gained her point, and the present Marlborough House marks the spot.
The indignation of the London populace was justly aroused, because,when digging the foundation for her palace, the duchess had caused theremoval of a fine oak tree which had sprung from an acorn that CharlesII. had brought from Boscobel, and planted with his own hands in thispleasure garden of his queen, Catharine of Braganza.
The Marlborough family were jealous of Robert Harley, ex-speaker of thehouse of commons; and when his secretary, William Gregg, was arrestedbecause he was discovered in traitorous correspondence with the French,they tried very hard to implicate Harley, too, but did not succeed. Thesecretary was hanged, and there was a hue and cry, because it was saidthat Queen Anne had sent the prisoner some comforts by her physician,Arbuthnot; but when the matter came to be sifted, it was found that suchwas her majesty's custom, because she was always unwilling to sentenceany one to death; and when obliged to do so tried to alleviate theirsufferings while they were in prison as much as possible.
[[A.D. 1708.]] Angry debates in the queen's cabinet council were ofdaily occurrence, and her presence was never a check on the coarsenessand brutality of the officers. A scene of this sort took place one daywhen her majesty made an attempt to free herself from the chains ofMarlborough and Lord Godolphin. She told her resolution to Mr. St. John,and sent a letter through him to the Duke of Marlborough, having firstread it to him, and requested him to tell what she had done abouttown. This was obeyed without reserve; and at the next council meeting,when Harley delivered a paper to her majesty containing some accounts ofthe war, the duke and lord-treasurer, Godolphin, abruptly left the room,whereupon the Duke of Somerset rose and told the queen in a rude tone,"That if she suffered that fellow to treat of affairs of the war,without the advice of the general, he could not serve her."
Of course her majesty was obliged to succumb to the storm she hadbrought about her head, and forthwith dismissed Harley. Then she wasrequested to get rid of Mrs. Masham, though the councillors did notmake a direct attack on the bed-chamber woman for fear of ridicule. TheDuchess of Marlborough demanded a private interview; but did notsucceed in having her cousin dismissed, because her aid in nursing theprince-consort was so valuable that the queen strenuously refused topart with her. But the duchess was so friendly in her manners at thisinterview that she succeeded in exacting a solemn promise from "her dearMrs. Morley" that if at any time it should become necessary for her toquit her service her places should be transferred to her daughters.
Another singular scene was enacted in the council when the "Pretender"invaded Scotland, and Sir George Byng was sent to intercept hisprogress. It was urged that if the young prince should be taken, heshould forfeit his life; thereupon the queen wept, and the council brokeup in confusion.
Although the "Pretender" was really captured, her majesty was spared theembarrassment of deciding as to his fate, for he was landed on Frenchsoil. Not so the Jacobites who were taken at the same time, for theywere charged with high treason; and old Lord Griffin was condemnedto execution. But he pined away, and at the expiration of eighteenmonths died in prison of old age; for the queen regularly respitedhim, until she was thus relieved of the pain of putting an end to theexistence of one of her father's most faithful servants.
During the summer the queen quarrelled with the Duke of Marlborough,because she desired to appoint colonels in the army, and he justlybelieved that he was more capable than she could possibly be of judgingwhat, men had deserved promotion. The prime reason for this dispute wasthat Prince George had some favorites for whom he desired places, andthe queen was anxious to gratify him; but the Duke of Marlborough wasso angry that he wrote a very severe letter of reproof to his brother,George Churchill, who forthwith showed it to her majesty, and excited agreat deal of displeasure.
Meanwhile the duchess kept hammering at Abigail Ma-sham, until at lastshe got hold of a subject for attack. One of the court spies had takenpains to inform her that her cousin had grand apartments at KensingtonPalace, where she received her friends in style whenever they called.After duly turning this piece of news over in her mind, the duchess cameto the conclusion that the apartments referred to must be those thatKing William had fitted up for his favorite, Keppel, and that Queen Annehad subsequently allotted to her. To be sure, she had never occupiedthem, and probably never would do so; but she was determined that noone else should enjoy them, least of all Abigail Masham. So, in highdudgeon, she posted off to Kensington to inquire into the matter.
Prince George was so ill from gout and asthma, and had grown soexcessively fat, that he could not get up or down stairs without a greatdeal of suffering; therefore he was lodged on the ground-floor of thepalace, whence he could walk out in the grounds and enjoy the airwhenever he felt able. The queen shared his apartments, and as he oftenrequired care at night to prevent his suffocating during his paroxysmsof coughing, the bed-chamber women were placed in the adjoining rooms,so they could be summoned in case of need.

On arriving at the palace, the duchess ordered the housemaid to openher suite of apartments, and moved towards those on the ground-floor,although part of them were situated on the one above. The maid repliedthat she could not do so, because they were divided between Mrs. Mashamand the bed-chamber women in waiting. That was just what the irateduchess had come to find out; so she immediately made an indignantcomplaint to the queen, which resulted, after too much absurd wranglingto be worthy of recital, in the removal of the royal household to ahouse in Windsor Forest, which her majesty had purchased in the dayswhen she was forbidden by Queen Mary to appear at court. In this quietretreat she watched over her sick husband and sought to relieve hissufferings; but the duchess declared that the reason Queen Anne spentthe summer in that place, "which was as hot as an oven," was to enableMrs. Masham to admit such persons as desired secret interviews with hermajesty, and they could be let in from the park without anybody beingthe wiser.
While at this cottage, the victory of Oudenarde was announced to hermajesty. When she heard that it had been won at the cost of two thousandlives, she exclaimed: "O Lord! when will all this dreadful bloodshedcease?" Nevertheless, etiquette required her to write a letter ofcongratulation and thanks to the victorious Duke of Marlborough, whichshe did at once.
Public thanksgiving for the victory took place in the usual way at St.Paul's Cathedral on the nineteenth of August. As her husband was thevictor, the Duchess of Marlborough considered herself the heroine ofthe day, and bustled about to make herself as important as possible.Her office of mistress of the robes imposed upon her several duties, andamong others, the arrangement of the queen's jewels as she chose to havethem worn. When the royal cortège was approaching the cathedral, theduchess chanced to cast her eyes over the costume of her majesty, andobserved that the jewels were absent. This was a mark of disrespect thatshe would not stand, so she began scolding in such way that the queenlost her temper, and the two ladies quarrelled and abused each otheruntil they got inside the church, when the duchess angrily bade thequeen "to hold her tongue." This was too much. Her majesty hadborne a great deal from her friend, but such an insult aroused herindignation. Perhaps the duchess repented of her hasty speech; for a dayor two later she took occasion to send the following humble note with aletter from her husband:--
"I cannot help sending your majesty this letter to show how exactly LordMarlborough agrees with me in opinion that he has now no interest withyou, though when I said so in the church last Thursday you were pleasedto say it was untrue."
"And yet, I think he will be surprised to hear that when I had taken somuch pains to put your jewels in a way that I thought you would like,Mrs. Masham could make you refuse to wear them in so unkind a manner;because that was a power she had not thought fit to exercise before.
"I will make no reflections on it, only that I must needs observe thatyour majesty chose a very wrong day to mortify me when your were justgoing to return thanks for a victory obtained by my Lord Marlborough!"
No doubt the queen thought, as anybody might, that a great deal offuss had been made about a trifling matter, for she sent the followingreply:--
"After the _commands_ you gave me on the thanksgiving day not to answer,I should not have troubled you with these lines; but, to return the Dukeof Marlborough's letter safe into your hands, and for the same reason, Ido not say anything to that or to yours which enclosed it."
What a pity it is that the queen did not always behave with the samedignity, when dealing with the haughty, domineering duchess! If shehad, many a heartache and many an insult she might have spared herself.Another letter, still more meek in its tone, was sent in reply; butopen warfare had been declared between the friends of formeryears, and the duchess had no chance of ever regaining her sway over hersovereign's heart.
Her husband's ill health was a matter of greater concern to Queen Annejust then than anything else could be; and, within a week after thestormy scene at St. Paul's, she set out with him for the west ofEngland, hoping that change of air might benefit him. They travelled byeasy stages until they arrived at Bath, a favorite resort, where Anneoften went for her own health.
That autumn a fine statue of the queen that had been modeled by Bird,the sculptor, was finished, and placed at the west door of St. Paul's,where it still stands. Although it is said to be a perfect likeness, itis considered by no means an excellent work of art, notwithstanding itshaving cost over five hundred pounds. Just when it was erected, therewas a report current that the queen intended to free herself from thetyranny of the Duchess of Marlborough. That was enough to strike terrorto the hearts of the Whigs; for with their ruler in disgrace, theycould hope for no better fate than banishment,--at least from the publictreasury, whence they were generously helping themselves. Their onlychance then was to calumniate the queen and make her as unpopular aspossible, so that when it came to the point their party would be toostrong for her to resist. So they accused her of all sorts of vices incirculars that were daily distributed among the populace. One chargebrought against her was that of intoxication, because one of her enemieshad said "that she got drunk every day as a remedy to keep the gout fromher stomach." Had this been a fact, the Duchess of Marlborough wouldcertainly have been one of her first accusers, but even in her mostmalignant moods she never mentions such a fact. However, the Whigphysician, Dr. Garth, wrote an epigram which was found fastened tothe statue the day after it appeared in front of St. Paul's Cathedral.It ran thus:--
               "Here mighty Anne's statue placed we find,
               Betwixt the daring passions of her mind;
               A brandy-shop before, a church behind:
               But why thy back turned to that sacred place,
               As thy unhappy father's was to grace?
               Why here, like Tantalus, in torments placed,
               To view those waters which thou canst not taste?
               Though, by thy proffer'd globe we may perceive,
               That for a dram, thou the whole world would'st give."
It must be remembered that this was written by an enemy; very differentis the poetry under an engraving of the queen and her consort at theBritish Museum, and forms a pleasing contrast to the above:--
               "The only married queen that ne'er knew strife,
               Controlling monarchs, but submissive wife,
               Like angels' sighs her downy passions move,
               Tenderly loving and attractive love.
               Of every grace and virtue she's possessed--
               Was mother, wife, and queen, and all the best"
On her return from Bath the queen congratulated herself on her husband'simprovement; but he knew that it was only momentary, and when she waspreparing for a hunting excursion at Newmarket he begged her not toleave him. He felt that he had not long to live, and he was right, forhe died before the close of the month, at Kensington Palace. QueenAnne had been a happy wife for twenty years, and the death of theprince-consort was a dreadful blow, though she had witnessed hisdeclining health for many months. Even at the moment of her greatestbereavement, the Duchess of Marlborough forced herself into the presenceof the queen, and insisted upon leading her from the room after theprince was dead. Anne treated her with excessive coldness, merelysubmitting to the arrangements she had made for her removal to St.James's Palace, because she was too miserable to oppose her.
The interment of the prince-consort took place on the thirteenthof November. The funeral was private, which only means that it wasperformed by torchlight at night, for it was attended by all theministers and great officers of state. The court went into mourning, andall the theatres were closed for a month.
[[A.D. 1709.]] The duchess continued to watch Queen Anne very closely,and was shocked when fires were ordered to be made in the apartmentsoccupied by the late prince-consort, also in those below, the two beingconnected by a private back staircase. They were for her majesty andMrs. Masham, and strong suspicions were aroused in the mind of theactive watch-dog that this arrangement was effected for the purpose ofgranting interviews with her political opponents. She, therefore, tookthe queen to task for such an irregular mode of proceeding, and raisingher eyes and hands in holy horror, said: "I'm amazed!" But the queenmade no reply, and probably no change in her plans just then, for shewas so absorbed in grief that she took no interest in anything for manymonths. She was not sufficiently recovered in spirits to open parliamentthe following May, but she issued a general pardon, particularly tothose who had been in correspondence with the Court of St. Germain,and it was confirmed. This was for the protection of Lord-treasurerGodolphin as well as herself, for she was always in mortal terror lestthe Marlborough family should proclaim to the world the part shehad played in the revolution. Therefore she dared not exasperate theduchess, nor could she remove her until the duke had accumulatedwealth sufficient to render the stability of the government a matter ofpersonal interest with him. The duchess understood this perfectly,and made the queen feel her power, as we have seen.
Another victory won by the Duke of Marlborough forced her majesty toreappear in public. This was Malplaquet; but twenty thousand Britishsubjects had lost their lives on the battle-field, and Queen Anne joinedthe thanksgiving procession with a heavy heart, and with eyes red andswollen from weeping. She could not rejoice over a victory at such asacrifice. The details of the war filled her with horror, and she longedto put an end to the dreadful slaughter; but the victorious duke'sreturn gave her little encouragement in that respect, for he demanded ofthe queen "her patent to make him captain-general for life, because thewar would not only last through their lives, but probably forever." Annewas perfectly amazed at this extraordinary speech, but dismissed thesubject by answering: "That she would take time to consider it," andafterwards asked Lord-chancellor Cowper: "In what words would you draw acommission which is to render the Duke of Marlborough captain-general ofmy armies for life?"
Lord Cowper stared as though he thought her majesty had taken leaveof her senses, and then warmly expressed his disapproval of such aproceeding. "Well, talk to the Duke of Marlborough about it," repliedthe queen, without telling him that she had never intended to make theappointment. Cowper obeyed, and assured the duke "that he would neverput the great seal of England to such a commission." The Duke of Argyleand several other noblemen were secretly brought to confer with thequeen on this subject, and she asked what she should do if her refusalto appoint Marlborough captain-general for life should prompt him tomake an attack on the crown. The Duke of Argyle replied: "Her majestyneed not worry, for he would undertake, if ever she commanded it, toseize


the Duke of Marlborough, at the head of his troops, and bring himbefore her, dead or alive!"
It was Harley who brought this secret council together, and theMarlboroughs hated him worse than ever when they discovered it. They hadgone a step too far, and the division in their own party in consequencecaused the duke to withdraw his request.
Her majesty having expressed her intention to lay aside her mourningat the Christmas festival, which was close at hand, intercourse becamenecessary between her and the duchess, who was mistress of the robes.This was a signal for the renewal of hostilities, beginning withlodgings and situations for chambermaids and other members of the royalhousehold; for the tyrant duchess insisted on her right to make everyappointment of that sort. Many severe letters passed between her and thequeen on this subject, and it became necessary to inform her on one ortwo occasions that she had rather overstepped the mark when claiming"her rights." The storm was at its height when the duchess discoveredthat her majesty, without asking permission, had ordered a bottle ofwine to be allowed daily to a sick laundress who had washed her lacesfor twenty years. Thereupon she raved like an angry fishwife, and hervoice was raised to such a pitch that the footmen at the back-stairsheard every word she uttered. The queen, unable to contend with such avixen, rose to leave the room; but the irate duchess whisked past her,slammed the door, posted her back against it, and informed her royalmistress "that she _should_ hear her out, for that was the least favorshe could do her for having set the crown on her head and kept itthere." This tirade was kept up for nearly an hour; then Sarah ofMarlborough finished by saying "that she did not care if she never sawher majesty again," and flounced out of the room as the queen calmlyreplied, "that she thought, indeed, the more seldom the better."
It is hard to comprehend how a sovereign could submit to suchhumiliating scenes, but she knew that the chief cause of complaint withthe duchess regarding the wine arose from the fact of the laundresshaving once served Mrs. Masham, who, it was supposed, was the instigatorof the queen's beneficent act. Even then such petty jealousy, and suchabsurdly, undignified behavior give a poor opinion to the world of thelofty duchess's head and heart. She and the queen scarcely spoke afterthis; but a day or two before Christmas she wrote a letter to hermajesty lecturing her on the necessity of entering on the religiousservices of the season with a spirit of meekness and forgivenessfor injuries. Some passages were so insolent that the letter was notanswered; but as the queen passed to the altar of St. James's Chapel,she bestowed a gracious smile on the writer.
[[A.D. 1710.]] The new year opened with the queen at Hampton Court,considering the best means for breaking loose from the trammels of theWhig party, headed by the Marlborough family. It was a difficult step,but she was determined to take it, and for that purpose summoned Harleyto her presence in the most secret manner possible. His advice was tobegin by filling the post of lieutenant of the Tower, just vacated bythe death of the Earl of Essex, as her majesty chose, without consultinganybody. In consequence, the Earl of Rivers was appointed to this greatoffice, whereupon the duchess flew into a rage, and declared that a manwho had borne the nickname of "Tyburn Dick" in his youth, having barelyescaped conviction at the criminal bar for robbing his own father,was no fit person for such an honor. But this is how he had managed toobtain it: No sooner did he hear of the death


of Essex than he hastened to the presence of the Duke ofMarlborough with the news, adding a request that the great man wouldinterest himself with the queen to secure the vacant post for him. Itwas not the duke's way to give a decided refusal, nor did he hesitate tomake promises that he had not the slightest intention of fulfilling;so, after complimenting "Tyburn Dick," and loading him with offers ofkindness, the duke advised him to "think of something better than thelieutenancy of the Tower, as the place was not worthy of his talent."However, the man was determined, and said: "He was going to ask thequeen for the appointment, and would tell her that his grace had noobjection." Marlborough, who never dreamed that the queen would take animportant step without consulting him, told Lord Rivers that "he mightsay so if he pleased;" whereupon the petitioner lost not a moment inseeking an audience of the queen, who, on hearing what Marlborough hadsaid, with the adornments Lord Rivers chose to add, made the appointmentat once. As the new lieutenant of the Tower passed out of the royalpresence he made the duke, who was just entering, a most profound bow,and rubbed his hands with delight as he left the palace. But we knowthat the duke had not intended that Rivers should succeed Essex, and theobject of his present visit to her majesty was to propose the Duke ofNorthumberland instead. He was amazed to find that he was too late, andmade serious complaints to the queen, who asked him, "whether EarlRivers had asserted what was not true." The duke could not say that hehad, and so there was no redress; but, when her majesty followed up thisappointment by one for colonel of a regiment, Lord Godolphin was asindignant as the duke himself, and she was forced to withdraw.
Before departing for his campaign the Duke of Marlborough sought aninterview with the queen, and requested that his wife might be permittedto remain in the country as much as possible, and that as soon as peacewas made her resignation might be accepted in favor of her daughters.The queen granted the first part of the request with alacrity, delightedat the prospect of being relieved of the presence of her tyrant, butmade no reply with regard to the daughter's, on whom she intended tobestow no favors whatever.
Now a most important trial took place this year, that created intenseexcitement, and occupied the court for three entire weeks. It was thatof Dr. Sacheverel, a representative of an ancient Norman family, who hadbeen impeached, chiefly on charges connected with the church; but, asthis affair is excessively dry and uninteresting, it is only necessaryto mention it because of its bearing on the position of Queen Anne. Dr.Sacheverel belonged to her party, and she was so much interested inhis trial that she sat to witness it every day in a curtained box atWestminster Hall. At the end of the contest the doctor was sentenced tosuspend his preaching for three years, which was almost equivalent toacquittal. The lower classes showed clearly that they were for their"good Queen Anne," and that they were ready to rise in her defenceagainst the Whig ministry whenever she should say the word. Thisfeeling, which was so clearly manifested, encouraged the queen to takemeasures to free herself from the Marlboroughs and their party. Theduchess made several attempts at private interviews, but was alwaysrepulsed, until she became convinced at last that Queen Anne would seeher only at public receptions, or when official duties required it. TheMarlborough family conclave were convinced that their days were numberedwhen the Tory Duke of Shrewsbury was made lord-chamberlain of theroyal household in place of the Whig Marquis of Kent. This was followedup by the removal of Lord Sunderland from his office of secretary ofstate. This young man, as son-in-law of the Duchess of Marlborough,had heard her majesty spoken of with so much disrespect that he hadon several occasions behaved most rudely, and he was removed for thisreason, more than for any adherence to the Whig party.
The colonel whom her majesty had desired to appoint when she met withsuch violent opposition was Jack Hill, brother to Mrs. Masham, herfavorite bed-chamber woman. She made another attempt, and positivelydeclared that she would not sign a single one of the Duke ofMarlborough's numerous commissions until her will was obeyed in thismatter. This was alarming, for the duke received payment for thesecommissions; so he gave in at once and signed Jack Hill's appointmentwithout further parley. Queen Anne forthwith sent the new officerto make an attack on Quebec, as the conquest of Canada was deemedan important measure for the security of the British possessions inAmerica. Much to the delight of the Marlborough party, Jack Hill'sattempt was a failure.
The duchess was so angry at the dismissal of her son-in-law that shesent a letter to her husband, which he was to copy and forward to hermajesty as though it were expressive of his own wrath, but he tossedit into the fire. But the irrepressible duchess had it intimated to thequeen through David Hamilton, one of the court physicians, "that ifshe persisted in ruining her party all her fond and friendly lettersof former days should be published, and forwarded on lest 'dear Mrs.Morley' might have forgotten how high her opinion had been of Mrs.Freeman, at that date." The queen kept her own letter, and demanded allthe rest,saying: "She was sure the duchess did not _now_ valuethem." Not another one found its way to the queen, for they were weaponstoo powerful to be lightly parted with.
The next dismissal was that of the queen's long-trusted lord-treasurer,Godolphin. Several of his friends expressed their concern at this moveon the part of her majesty. She merely replied, "I am sorry for it, butcould not help it," and then turned out Lord Rialton, another of theMarlborough sons-in-law. The office of lord-treasurer was placed in thehands of seven commissioners, with Mr. Harley at their head.
The Duke of Marlborough wrote his wife that he had heard of an assassinbeing on his way from Vienna to England with designs against the queen'slife, and requested that the utmost care might be taken lest he shouldgain access to the royal presence. Here was a chance for the duchessto ingratiate herself once more in the queen's favor; so she drove posthaste to court, and with a most important air demanded admittance, "on amatter of life and death." Her majesty refused to see her, whereupon theduchess sent her husband's letter by a messenger. One of Queen Anne'speculiarities was indifference to personal danger, so without heedingthe warning, she merely returned the duke's letter with a line, saying:"Just as I was coming down stairs I received yours, so could not returnenclosed until I got back." This was the last written sentence that everpassed between the queen and the duchess.
Many of the ancient nobility who had never approached the English courtsince the revolution paid their respects to Queen Anne as soon as shehad rid herself of the Marl-boroughs. But the principal one of thatparty still remained, for nobody had the courage to approach theterrible creature with any but flattering news; so it was determinedto await the return of the only person in the world who couldmanage her, and that was the duke himself.
Meanwhile the daring woman, who retained her office in defiance ofsovereign, prime minister, and all the other high officials, drove abouttown in her magnificent coach, and made visits to different membersof her party for the purpose of calumniating the queen. She was notpermitted to enter the royal presence, and kept the gold keys thatreally belonged to the new officials; but she boldly declared that hermajesty would soon want new gowns, and then she would be compelled tocome to her to give orders for them. But she was mistaken, for on thereturn of the duke in December there was to be an end of her influencewith the queen in every particular. On his arrival in London the duketook a hack and drove direct to St. James's, where he had a private halfhour's interview with the queen. In his peculiar plaintive tone of voicehe lamented his connection with the Whigs, and told her majesty "that hewas worn out with fatigue, age, and misfortunes," and added "that he wasneither covetous nor ambitious,"--at which she could scarcely suppress asmile. At the close of the interview the queen requested him to tellhis wife "that she wished back her gold keys as groom of the stole andmistress of the robes." The duke remonstrated, but the queen merelyreplied: "It was for her honor that the keys should be returnedforthwith."
The duke entreated that this matter might be delayed until after thepeace, which must take place the ensuing summer, when he and his wifewould retire together. The queen would not delay the return of the keysone week. The duke fell on his knees and begged for a respite of tendays; the queen compromised, and named three as the utmost limit. Twodays later the duke again presented himself at St. James's onurgent business; but her majesty refused to speak with him, unless hehad brought the gold keys. Thereupon he returned home to get them, whena stormy scene ensued, which ended by his wife throwing the key's at hishead. When the queen received them from the duke's hands, she said, "shevalued them more than if he had brought her the spoils of an enemy."
[[A.D. 1711.]] Early in the following year Queen Anne divided betweenthe Duchess of Somerset and Mrs. Ma-sham the offices formerly held bythe Duchess of Marlborough, the former being made mistress of the robesand groom of the stole; the latter, keeper of the privy-purse. On thesecond of May Queen Anne's uncle, the Earl of Rochester, died suddenlyof apoplexy.
Although Anne was his own niece, the earl had never concealed from herhis opinion that she had no right to the crown she wore; but he hadconsented to aid her in the government, and was, as we know, madepresident of the council. But he entertained to the last day of his lifethe hope that he should see the son of James II. restored to the throne,and was the means of causing several letters to pass between JamesStuart, or the Chevalier de St. George, as he was then called, and thequeen.
The Duke of Buckingham succeeded Rochester; and, being a relation ofthe queen's, a most friendly feeling _existed_ between them. Once, afterreading a long letter presented by him from her brother, the Chevalierde St. George, in which he set forth his claim to the throne, Queen Anneturned to Buckingham, and asked: "How can I serve him, my lord? You wellknow that a papist cannot enjoy this crown in peace. Why has the exampleof my father no weight with his son? He prefers his religious errors tothe throne of a great kingdom. He must thank himself, therefore, forhis own exclusion. All would be easy if he would join the Church ofEngland. Advise him to change his religion, my lord."
Although Queen Anne spoke thus, she knew that her brother would notrenounce Catholicism, and she had no intention of aiding him to thethrone unless he did. She favored the succession of the Protestant houseof Hanover; but the Princess Sophia, who was the heiress of that line,had emphatically declared that if the young prince and princess of thehouse of Stuart would become members of the Church of England, theirclaim should never be disputed, nor would it have been, as future eventsproved.
Throughout the summer Queen Anne suffered so much from gout that shecould scarcely stir from her bed, but she held her receptions all thesame, and the crowd was often so great that only those nearest thebed could get sight of her. In the autumn she was better, and receivedambassadors from France to negotiate for peace. One evening in Octoberher majesty mentioned publicly at supper "that she had agreed to treatwith France, and that she did not doubt but that in a little timeshe should be able to announce to her people that which she had longdesired,--a general peace for Europe."
But she had not yet secured peace at home, for matters took such aturn that the new ministry insisted on the removal of the Duchessof Somerset, and when her majesty returned to the palace from theparliament meeting she asked for the Duchess of Marlborough. One of thelatter's friends rushed to her, without a moment's delay, and told herthat if she would go to the queen then she might, with a few flatteringwords, overthrow her enemies, but she indignantly refused. The queen hadnew ground for complaint against the duchess when she took possession ofher new palace, just completed in St. James's Park; for the apartmentsshe left in the queen's palace were bereft of locks, bolts,mirrors, marble slabs, and pictures, and looked as though a destructivearmy had sacked them. The duke lamented the strange conduct of his wifewhen he got back, but declared "that there was no help for it, and a manmust bear a good deal to lead a quiet life at home." But this confessiondid not prevent his dismissal from the army. He was succeeded by theDuke of Ormond, who was ordered not to gain victories, but to keep theBritish forces in a state of armed neutrality until peace was concluded.
It was at this time that Mr. Masham was made a peer, because her majestywas urged to it by some of her ministers, but she said that she hadnever any intention of making Abigail a great lady, and feared thatby so doing she had lost a useful servant. But Lady Masham promised tocontinue in the office of dresser to her majesty even though she was apeeress.
[[A.D. 1712.]] Nothing had given the queen so much trouble sincethe death of the prince-consort as that of her beautiful sister, thePrincess Louisa, which occurred suddenly at St. Germain. An account ofthis sad event is given in the story of Mary Beatrice of Modena.
Anne was ill herself in the autumn from intermittent fever, from whichshe never entirely recovered.
Dean Swift was anxious to become a bishop at this period, and appliedfor the see of Hereford, which Queen Anne was disposed to grant, becauseshe had never heard of him as anything but a partisan of the church.But he and Lady Masham had been friends for a long time, and shehad frequently warned him to destroy the witty, satirical, offensivearticles he had shown her about her majesty, the Duchess of Somerset,and others. The queen knew nothing about these writings, but the Duchessof Somerset did, so she secured the aid of Dr. Sharpe, Arch- bishopof York, to prevent the appointment. When her majesty consulted thearchbishop on the subject, he startled her with this question: "Oughtnot your sacred majesty to be first certain whether Dr. Swift is aChristian before he becomes a bishop?" The queen asked him what he couldpossibly mean, whereupon, having armed himself with "The Tale of a Tub,"and other works of Swift, he handed them to her. She was amazed at whatshe read, and ashamed of the slanderous puns addressed to herself, forshe had not suspected their existence. It is needless to add that Swiftwas not raised to the bishopric of England, but the following year hewas appointed Dean of St. Patrick's in Ireland.
[[A.D. 1713.]] The treaty of peace that Queen Anne had so long andso earnestly desired was at last signed at Utrecht, and the Frenchambassador, Duc d'Aumont, soon after arrived in London to confer withher majesty on this subject. He addressed the most flattering speechesto her, and presented her with the nine beautiful gray Flemish horseswith which he had made his public entrance into the metropolis.
Parliament met soon after; and the queen's speech, announcing peace,after eleven years of warfare, was anxiously awaited. But she was tooill with gout, which had affected different parts of her body, to beable to appear in the house of lords until the ninth of April, andthen her voice was painfully weak from her long suffering. Her majestyoffered Louis IV. the Order of the Garter in honor of the signing of thepeace; but the most interesting event to us of the present day connectedwith it is that the great composer, Handel, wrote his magnificentJubilate to celebrate it.
As time went on the queen's health grew no better, and she was suchan enormous eater that frequent attacks of gout were theresult,--particularly as she had grown so corpulent from her otherdisease, dropsy, that she could take no exercise, and had to be loweredand raised from one floor to another in the palace by means of a chairworked with pulleys and ropes. She was in constant dread lest herbrother should land in England, or George of Hanover present himselfat court to claim his place as her successor. She, therefore, wrote twoletters, one to Princess Sophia, Dowager Electress of Brunswick, theother to George Augustus, Duke of Cambridge, setting forth the danger ofsuch a proceeding, and appealing to their honor. As we know, her fearswere groundless in that direction; for the house of Hanover made noattempt to approach the shores of England, though there has been somedispute among historians as to their real intentions in this matter.
[[A.D. 1714.]] Queen Anne paid the ballad writer, Tom D'Urfey, a fee offifty pounds for a verse he repeated one day while she was at dessert,that happened to tickle her fancy. As it refers to the Hanoversuccession, it is worth repeating:--
                   "The crown's far too weighty
                        For shoulders of eighty;
                   She could not sustain such a trophy.
                   Her hand, too, already
                   Has grown so unsteady
                   She can't hold a sceptre;
                   So Providence kept her
                   Away--poor old Dowager Sophy!"
Certainly D'Urfey did not earn his fifty pounds for the literary meritof the verse, but perhaps it was because it possessed so little that itpleased the queen. The Electress Sophia of Hanover, about whom it waswritten, died before the end of the year, at the age of eighty-four.
Queen Anne witnessed several stormy scenes among her ministerstowards the end of July that caused her intense suffering. After eachone she would sink into a swoon from exhaustion, and frequently saidto her physician, Dr. Arbuthnot, "I shall never survive it." Thecouncillors showed little consideration for her presence, and continuedtheir quarrels, regardless of her ill health, though they must have seenthe cruel effect. On the evening of July 29, there was to be anothercouncil meeting, which the sick queen dreaded more than all the others.When the hour drew near, Mrs. Danvers, one of the oldest ladies of theroyal household, entered the presence chamber of Kensington Palace, andto her great surprise, beheld the queen standing before the clock withher eyes intently fixed on the dial plate. As her majesty had not forseveral months been able to move without assistance, Mrs. Danvers'ssurprise is early understood. She crossed the large room, the deepsilence of which was only broken by the ticking of the clock, andapproaching the queen, asked, "whether her majesty saw anything unusualthere in the clock?" Without answering, Queen Anne turned slowly andlooked at the speaker, who was so terrified at the ghastly, troubledexpression on her face that she screamed for help. The queen was carriedto bed by the people who had hastened to the summons, and raved indelirium for many hours about "the Pretender."
Doctor Arbuthnot passed the night at her bedside, with several othercourt physicians, and the invalid rallied; but the news of her conditionspread like wild-fire all over London; and in the morning Dr. Mead, aWhig politician, was summoned. As soon as he had seen the royal invalid,he demanded that "those who were in favor of the Protestant successionshould at once send a bulletin of her majesty's symptoms to the Electorof Hanover's physicians, who would soon say how long Queen Anne had tolive: but he staked his professional reputation that her majestywould be no more long before such intelligence should be received." Ithas always been supposed that the peaceable proclamation of George I.was due to this physician's boldness.
But Queen Anne did not die quite as soon as Dr. Mead had predicted,which was within an hour, for she recovered consciousness and speechenough, after being bled a second time, to appoint the Duke ofShrewsbury prime minister.
He approached her bed, and asked her, "if she knew to whom she gave thewhite wand?"--the insignia of office.
"Yes," replied the queen, "to the Duke of Shrewsbury; for God's sake,use it for the good of my people." Shortly after her mind began towander again, and she frequently exclaimed in a piteous tone: "Oh, mybrother!--oh, my poor brother!"
The privy council assembled at her bedside; but she never recoveredconsciousness sufficient to pray or to speak rationally, and they soonwithdrew.
To prevent a disturbance in the city, the lord-mayor was ordered to beparticularly watchful; trained troops were held in readiness to act ata moment's warning, and an extra guard was placed at the Tower. TheJacobite party held a meeting, but decided, after a great deal ofconsideration, that they could do nothing towards proclaiming theChevalier de St. George.
Between seven and eight o'clock, on the morning of August 1, 1714, QueenAnne expired, in the fiftieth year of her age, and the thirteenth of herreign. She died as her predecessor, William III., had done, on Sunday,and George I. was proclaimed king the same day. It must have been abitter trial to the Jacobites to behold the Duke of Marl-


borough, who, after a voluntary exile, returned to London theWednesday succeeding Queen Anne's death, and made a grand triumphalentry, attended by hundreds of gentlemen on horseback, some of thenobility in coaches, and the city militia; but they had the satisfactionof seeing his own splendid carriage break down by Temple-Bar.
Queen Anne had done much good for her people, and no evil; and therenever was a sovereign more deeply regretted. The Duchess of Marlboroughwrote a most unjust, abusive description of her benefactress; but it isto be hoped our young readers will be able to form an estimate of hercharacter for themselves.
Her remains were deposited in the vault on the south side of HenryVIII.'s Chapel, in Westminster, where lie Charles II., William III., andPrince George of Denmark. There was only one place left in this vault,and as soon as it received the last of the Stuart sovereigns it wasbricked up. No monument nor tablet marks the resting-place of "goodQueen Anne," though it seems as though the fondness of "the Bounty"deserved at least this trifling distinction from the Church of England.