CONTENTS

The Story of a PanicThe Other Side of the HedgeThe Celestial OmnibusOther KingdomThe Curate's FriendThe Road from Colonus


THE STORY OF A PANIC


I

Eustace's career--if career it can be called--certainly dates from thatafternoon in the chestnut woods above Ravello. I confess at once that Iam a plain, simple man, with no pretensions to literary style. Still, Ido flatter myself that I can tell a story without exaggerating, and Ihave therefore decided to give an unbiassed account of the extraordinaryevents of eight years ago.
Ravello is a delightful place with a delightful little hotel in which wemet some charming people. There were the two Miss Robinsons, who hadbeen there for six weeks with Eustace, their nephew, then a boy of aboutfourteen. Mr. Sandbach had also been there some time. He had held acuracy in the north of England, which he had been compelled to resign onaccount of ill-health, and while he was recruiting at Ravello he hadtaken in hand Eustace's education--which was then sadly deficient--andwas endeavouring to fit him for one of our great public schools. Thenthere was Mr. Leyland, a would-be artist, and, finally, there was thenice landlady, Signora Scafetti, and the nice English-speaking waiter,Emmanuele--though at the time of which I am speaking Emmanuele was away,visiting a sick father.
To this little circle, I, my wife, and my two daughters made, I ventureto think, a not unwelcome addition. But though I liked most of thecompany well enough, there were two of them to whom I did not take atall. They were the artist, Leyland, and the Miss Robinsons' nephew,Eustace.
Leyland was simply conceited and odious, and, as those qualities will beamply illustrated in my narrative, I need not enlarge upon them here.But Eustace was something besides: he was indescribably repellent.
I am fond of boys as a rule, and was quite disposed to be friendly. Iand my daughters offered to take him out--'No, walking was such a fag.'Then I asked him to come and bathe--' No, he could not swim.'
"Every English boy should be able to swim," I said, "I will teach youmyself."
"There, Eustace dear," said Miss Robinson; "here is a chance for you."
But he said he was afraid of the water!--a boy afraid!--and of course Isaid no more.
I would not have minded so much if he had been a really studious boy,but he neither played hard nor worked hard. His favourite occupationswere lounging on the terrace in an easy chair and loafing along the highroad, with his feet shuffling up the dust and his shoulders stoopingforward. Naturally enough, his features were pale, his chest contracted,and his muscles undeveloped. His aunts thought him delicate; what hereally needed was discipline.
That memorable day we all arranged to go for a picnic up in the chestnutwoods--all, that is, except Janet, who stopped behind to finish herwater-colour of the Cathedral--not a very successful attempt, I amafraid.
I wander off into these irrelevant details, because in my mind I cannotseparate them from an account of the day; and it is the same with theconversation during the picnic: all is imprinted on my brain together.After a couple of hours' ascent, we left the donkeys that had carriedthe Miss Robinsons and my wife, and all proceeded on foot to the head ofthe valley--Vallone Fontana Caroso is its proper name, I find.
I have visited a good deal of fine scenery before and since, but havefound little that has pleased me more. The valley ended in a vasthollow, shaped like a cup, into which radiated ravines from theprecipitous hills around. Both the valley and the ravines and the ribsof hill that divided the ravines were covered with leafy chestnut, sothat the general appearance was that of a many fingered green hand, palmupwards, which was clutching, convulsively to keep us in its grasp. Fardown the valley we could see Ravello and the sea, but that was the onlysign of another world.
"Oh, what a perfectly lovely place," said my daughter Rose. "What apicture it would make!"
"Yes," said Mr. Sandbach. "Many a famous European gallery would be proudto have a landscape a tithe as beautiful as this upon its walls."
"On the contrary," said Leyland, "it would make a very poor picture.Indeed, it is not paintable at all."
"And why is that?" said Rose, with far more deference than he deserved.
"Look, in the first place," he replied, "how intolerably straightagainst the sky is the line of the hill. It would need breaking up anddiversifying. And where we are standing the whole thing is out ofperspective. Besides, all the colouring is monotonous and crude."
"I do not know anything about pictures," I put in, "and I do not pretendto know: but I know what is beautiful when I see it, and I am thoroughlycontent with this."
"Indeed, who could help being contented!" said the elder Miss Robinsonand Mr. Sandbach said the same.
"Ah!" said Leyland, "you all confuse the artistic view of nature withthe photographic."
Poor Rose had brought her camera with her, so I thought this positivelyrude. I did not wish any unpleasantness; so I merely turned away andassisted my wife and Miss Mary Robinson to put out the lunch--not a verynice lunch.
"Eustace, dear," said his aunt, "come and help us here."
He was in a particularly bad temper that morning. He had, as usual, notwanted to come, and his aunts had nearly allowed him to stop at thehotel to vex Janet. But I, with their permission, spoke to him rathersharply on the subject of exercise; and the result was that he had come,but was even more taciturn and moody than usual.
Obedience was not his strong point. He invariably questioned everycommand, and only executed it grumbling. I should always insist onprompt and cheerful obedience, if I had a son.
"I'm--coming--Aunt--Mary," he at last replied, and dawdled to cut apiece of wood to make a whistle, taking care not to arrive till we hadfinished.
"Well, well, sir!" said I, "you stroll in at the end and profit by ourlabours." He sighed, for he could not endure being chaffed. Miss Mary,very unwisely, insisted on giving him the wing of the chicken, in spiteof all my attempts to prevent her. I remember that I had a moment'svexation when I thought that, instead of enjoying the sun, and the air,and the woods, we were all engaged in wrangling over the diet of aspoilt boy.
But, after lunch, he was a little less in evidence. He withdrew to atree trunk, and began to loosen the bark from his whistle. I wasthankful to see him employed, for once in a way. We reclined, and took a_dolce far niente_.
Those sweet chestnuts of the South are puny striplings compared with ourrobust Northerners. But they clothed the contours of the hills andvalleys in a most pleasing way, their veil being only broken by twoclearings, in one of which we were sitting.
And because these few trees were cut down, Leyland burst into a pettyindictment of the proprietor.
"All the poetry is going from Nature," he cried, "her lakes and marshesare drained, her seas banked up, her forests cut down. Everywhere we seethe vulgarity of desolation spreading."
I have had some experience of estates, and answered that cutting wasvery necessary for the health of the larger trees. Besides, it wasunreasonable to expect the proprietor to derive no income from hislands.
"If you take the commercial side of landscape, you may feel pleasure inthe owner's activity. But to me the mere thought that a tree isconvertible into cash is disgusting."
"I see no reason," I observed politely, "to despise the gifts of Nature,because they are of value."
It did not stop him. "It is no matter," he went on, "we are allhopelessly steeped in vulgarity. I do not except myself. It is throughus, and to our shame, that the Nereids have left the waters and theOreads the mountains, that the woods no longer give shelter to Pan."
"Pan!" cried Mr. Sandbach, his mellow voice filling the valley as if ithad been a great green church, "Pan is dead. That is why the woods donot shelter him." And he began to tell the striking story of themariners who were sailing near the coast at the time of the birth ofChrist, and three times heard a loud voice saying: "The great God Pan isdead."
"Yes. The great God Pan is dead," said Leyland. And he abandoned himselfto that mock misery in which artistic people are so fond of indulging.His cigar went out, and he had to ask me for a match.
"How very interesting," said Rose. "I do wish I knew some ancienthistory."
"It is not worth your notice," said Mr. Sandbach. "Eh, Eustace?"
Eustace was finishing his whistle. He looked up, with the irritablefrown in which his aunts allowed him to indulge, and made no reply.
The conversation turned to various topics and then died out. It was acloudless afternoon in May, and the pale green of the young chestnutleaves made a pretty contrast with the dark blue of the sky. We were allsitting at the edge of the small clearing for the sake of the view, andthe shade of the chestnut saplings behind us was manifestlyinsufficient. All sounds died away--at least that is my account: MissRobinson says that the clamour of the birds was the first sign ofuneasiness that she discerned. All sounds died away, except that, far inthe distance, I could hear two boughs of a great chestnut grindingtogether as the tree swayed. The grinds grew shorter and shorter, andfinally that sound stopped also. As I looked over the green fingers ofthe valley, everything was absolutely motionless and still; and thatfeeling of suspense which one so often experiences when Nature is inrepose, began to steal over me.
Suddenly, we were all electrified by the excruciating noise of Eustace'swhistle. I never heard any instrument give forth so ear-splitting anddiscordant a sound.
"Eustace, dear," said Miss Mary Robinson, "you might have thought ofyour poor Aunt Julia's head."
Leyland who had apparently been asleep, sat up.
"It is astonishing how blind a boy is to anything that is elevating orbeautiful," he observed. "I should not have thought he could have foundthe wherewithal out here to spoil our pleasure like this."
Then the terrible silence fell upon us again. I was now standing up andwatching a catspaw of wind that was running down one of the ridgesopposite, turning the light green to dark as it travelled. A fancifulfeeling of foreboding came over me; so I turned away, to find to myamazement, that all the others were also on their feet, watching it too.
It is not possible to describe coherently what happened next: but I, forone, am not ashamed to confess that, though the fair blue sky was aboveme, and the green spring woods beneath me, and the kindest of friendsaround me, yet I became terribly frightened, more frightened than I everwish to become again, frightened in a way I never have known eitherbefore or after. And in the eyes of the others, too, I saw blank,expressionless fear, while their mouths strove in vain to speak andtheir hands to gesticulate. Yet, all around us were prosperity, beauty,and peace, and all was motionless, save the catspaw of wind, nowtravelling up the ridge on which we stood.
Who moved first has never been settled. It is enough to say that in onesecond we were tearing away along the hillside. Leyland was in front,then Mr. Sandbach, then my wife. But I only saw for a brief moment; forI ran across the little clearing and through the woods and over theundergrowth and the rocks and down the dry torrent beds into the valleybelow. The sky might have been black as I ran, and the trees shortgrass, and the hillside a level road; for I saw nothing and heardnothing and felt nothing, since all the channels of sense and reasonwere blocked. It was not the spiritual fear that one has known at othertimes, but brutal overmastering physical fear, stopping up the ears, anddropping clouds before the eyes, and filling the mouth with foul tastes.And it was no ordinary humiliation that survived; for I had been afraid,not as a man, but as a beast.


II

I cannot describe our finish any better than our start; for our fearpassed away as it had come, without cause. Suddenly I was able to see,and hear, and cough, and clear my mouth. Looking back, I saw that theothers were stopping too; and, in a short time, we were all together,though it was long before we could speak, and longer before we dared to.
No one was seriously injured. My poor wife had sprained her ankle,Leyland had torn one of his nails on a tree trunk, and I myself hadscraped and damaged my ear. I never noticed it till I had stopped.
We were all silent, searching one another's faces. Suddenly Miss MaryRobinson gave a terrible shriek. "Oh, merciful heavens! where isEustace?" And then she would have fallen, if Mr. Sandbach had not caughther.
"We must go back, we must go back at once," said my Rose, who was quitethe most collected of the party. "But I hope--I feel he is safe."
Such was the cowardice of Leyland, that he objected. But, findinghimself in a minority, and being afraid of being left alone, he gave in.Rose and I supported my poor wife, Mr. Sandbach and Miss Robinson helpedMiss Mary, and we returned slowly and silently, taking forty minutes toascend the path that we had descended in ten.
Our conversation was naturally disjointed, as no one wished to offer anopinion on what had happened. Rose was the most talkative: she startledus all by saying that she had very nearly stopped where she was.
"Do you mean to say that you weren't--that you didn't feel compelled togo?" said Mr. Sandbach.
"Oh, of course, I did feel frightened"--she was the first to use theword--"but I somehow felt that if I could stop on it would be quitedifferent, that I shouldn't be frightened at all, so to speak." Rosenever did express herself clearly: still, it is greatly to her creditthat she, the youngest of us, should have held on so long at thatterrible time.
"I should have stopped, I do believe," she continued, "if I had not seenmamma go."
Rose's experience comforted us a little about Eustace. But a feeling ofterrible foreboding was on us all, as we painfully climbed thechestnut-covered slopes and neared the little clearing. When we reachedit our tongues broke loose. There, at the further side, were the remainsof our lunch, and close to them, lying motionless on his back, wasEustace.
With some presence of mind I at once cried out: "Hey, you young monkey!jump up!" But he made no reply, nor did he answer when his poor auntsspoke to him. And, to my unspeakable horror, I saw one of those greenlizards dart out from under his shirt-cuff as we approached.
We stood watching him as he lay there so silently, and my ears began totingle in expectation of the outbursts of lamentations and tears.
Miss Mary fell on her knees beside him and touched his hand, which wasconvulsively entwined in the long grass.
As she did so, he opened his eyes and smiled.
I have often seen that peculiar smile since, both on the possessor'sface and on the photographs of him that are beginning to get into theillustrated papers. But, till then, Eustace had always worn a peevish,discontented frown; and we were all unused to this disquieting smile,which always seemed to be without adequate reason.
His aunts showered kisses on him, which he did not reciprocate, and thenthere was an awkward pause, Eustace seemed so natural and undisturbed,yet, if he had not had astonishing experiences himself, he ought to havebeen all the more astonished at our extraordinary behaviour. My wife,with ready tact, endeavoured to behave as if nothing had happened.
"Well, Mr. Eustace," she said, sitting down as she spoke, to ease herfoot, "how have you been amusing yourself since we have been away?"
"Thank you, Mrs. Tytler, I have been very happy."
"And where have you been?"
"Here."
"And lying down all the time, you idle boy?"
"No, not all the time."
"What were you doing before?"
"Oh; standing or sitting."
"Stood and sat doing nothing! Don't you know the poem 'Satan finds somemischief still for----'"
"Oh, my dear madam, hush! hush!" Mr. Sandbach's voice broke in; and mywife, naturally mortified by the interruption, said no more and movedaway. I was surprised to see Rose immediately take her place, and, withmore freedom than she generally displayed, run her fingers through theboy's tousled hair.
"Eustace! Eustace!" she said, hurriedly, "tell me everything--everysingle thing."
Slowly he sat up--till then he had lain on his back.
"Oh, Rose," he whispered, and, my curiosity being aroused, I movednearer to hear what he was going to say. As I did so, I caught sight ofsome goats' footmarks in the moist earth beneath the trees.
"Apparently you have had a visit from some goats," I observed. "I had noidea they fed up here."
Eustace laboriously got on to his feet and came to see; and when he sawthe footmarks he lay down and rolled on them, as a dog rolls in dirt.
After that there was a grave silence, broken at length by the solemnspeech of Mr. Sandbach.
"My dear friends," he said, "it is best to confess the truth bravely. Iknow that what I am going to say now is what you are all now feeling.The Evil One has been very near us in bodily form. Time may yet discoversome injury that he has wrought among us. But, at present, for myself atall events, I wish to offer up thanks for a merciful deliverance."
With that he knelt down, and, as the others knelt, I knelt too, though Ido not believe in the Devil being allowed to assail us in visible form,as I told Mr. Sandbach afterwards. Eustace came too, and knelt quietlyenough between his aunts after they had beckoned to him. But when it wasover he at once got up, and began hunting for something.
"Why! Someone has cut my whistle in two," he said. (I had seen Leylandwith an open knife in his hand--a superstitious act which I could hardlyapprove.)
"Well, it doesn't matter," he continued.
"And why doesn't it matter?" said Mr. Sandbach, who has ever since triedto entrap Eustace into an account of that mysterious hour.
"Because I don't want it any more."
"Why?"
At that he smiled; and, as no one seemed to have anything more to say, Iset off as fast as I could through the wood, and hauled up a donkey tocarry my poor wife home. Nothing occurred in my absence, except thatRose had again asked Eustace to tell her what had happened; and he, thistime, had turned away his head, and had not answered her a single word.
As soon as I returned, we all set off. Eustace walked with difficulty,almost with pain, so that, when we reached the other donkeys, his auntswished him to mount one of them and ride all the way home. I make it arule never to interfere between relatives, but I put my foot down atthis. As it turned out, I was perfectly right, for the healthy exercise,I suppose, began to thaw Eustace's sluggish blood and loosen hisstiffened muscles. He stepped out manfully, for the first time in hislife, holding his head up and taking deep draughts of air into hischest. I observed with satisfaction to Miss Mary Robinson, that Eustacewas at last taking some pride in his personal appearance.
Mr. Sandbach sighed, and said that Eustace must be carefully watched,for we none of us understood him yet. Miss Mary Robinson being verymuch--over much, I think--guided by him, sighed too.
"Come, come. Miss Robinson," I said, "there's nothing wrong withEustace. Our experiences are mysterious, not his. He was astonished atour sudden departure, that's why he was so strange when we returned. He'sright enough--improved, if anything."
"And is the worship of athletics, the cult of insensate activity, to becounted as an improvement?" put in Leyland, fixing a large, sorrowfuleye on Eustace, who had stopped to scramble on to a rock to pick somecyclamen. "The passionate desire to rend from Nature the few beautiesthat have been still left her--that is to be counted as an improvementtoo?"
It is mere waste of time to reply to such remarks, especially when theycome from an unsuccessful artist, suffering from a damaged finger. Ichanged the conversation by asking what we should say at the hotel.After some discussion, it was agreed that we should say nothing, eitherthere or in our letters home. Importunate truth-telling, which bringsonly bewilderment and discomfort to the hearers, is, in my opinion, amistake; and, after a long discussion, I managed to make Mr. Sandbachacquiesce in my view.
Eustace did not share in our conversation. He was racing about, like areal boy, in the wood to the right. A strange feeling of shame;prevented us from openly mentioning our fright to him. Indeed, it seemedalmost reasonable to conclude that it had made but little impression onhim. So it disconcerted us when he bounded back with an armful offlowering acanthus, calling out:
"Do you suppose Gennaro'll be there when we get back?"
Gennaro was the stop-gap waiter, a clumsy, impertinent fisher-lad, whohad been had up from Minori in the absence of the nice English-speakingEmmanuele. It was to him that we owed our scrappy lunch; and I could notconceive why Eustace desired to see him, unless it was to make mock withhim of our behaviour.
"Yes, of course he will be there," said Miss Robinson. "Why do you ask,dear?"
"Oh, I thought I'd like to see him."
"And why?" snapped Mr. Sandbach.
"Because, because I do, I do; because, because I do." He danced awayinto the darkening wood to the rhythm of his words.
"This is very extraordinary," said Mr. Sandbach. "Did he like Gennarobefore?"
"Gennaro has only been here two days," said Rose, "and I know that theyhaven't spoken to each other a dozen times."
Each time Eustace returned from the wood his spirits were higher. Oncehe came whooping down on us as a wild Indian, and another time he madebelieve to be a dog. The last time he came back with a poor dazed hare,too frightened to move, sitting on his arm. He was getting toouproarious, I thought; and we were all glad to leave the wood, and startupon the steep staircase path that leads down into Ravello. It was lateand turning dark; and we made all the speed we could, Eustace scurryingin front of us like a goat.
Just where the staircase path debouches on the white high road, the nextextraordinary incident of this extraordinary day occurred. Three oldwomen were standing by the wayside. They, like ourselves, had come downfrom the woods, and they were resting their heavy bundles of fuel on thelow parapet of the road. Eustace stopped in front of them, and, after amoment's deliberation, stepped forward and--kissed the left-hand one onthe cheek!
"My good fellow!" exclaimed Mr. Sandbach, "are you quite crazy?"
Eustace said nothing, but offered the old woman some of his flowers, andthen hurried on. I looked back; and the old woman's companions seemed asmuch astonished at the proceeding as we were. But she herself had putthe flowers in her bosom, and was murmuring blessings.
This salutation of the old lady was the first example of Eustace'sstrange behaviour, and we were both surprised and alarmed. It wasuseless talking to him, for he either made silly replies, or elsebounded away without replying at all.
He made no reference on the way home to Gennaro, and I hoped that thatwas forgotten. But, when we came to the Piazza, in front of theCathedral, he screamed out: "Gennaro! Gennaro!" at the top of his voice,and began running up the little alley that led to the hotel. Sureenough, there was Gennaro at the end of it, with his arms and legssticking out of the nice little English-speaking waiter's dress suit,and a dirty fisherman's cap on his head--for, as the poor landlady trulysaid, however much she superintended his toilette, he always managed tointroduce something incongruous into it before he had done.
Eustace sprang to meet him, and leapt right up into his arms, and puthis own arms round his neck. And this in the presence, not only of us,but also of the landlady, the chambermaid, the facchino, and of twoAmerican ladies who were coming for a few days' visit to the littlehotel.
I always make a point of behaving pleasantly to Italians, however littlethey may deserve it; but this habit of promiscuous intimacy wasperfectly intolerable and could only lead to familiarity andmortification for all. Taking Miss Robinson aside, I asked herpermission to speak seriously to Eustace on the subject of intercoursewith social inferiors. She granted it; but I determined to wait till theabsurd boy had calmed down a little from the excitement of the day.Meanwhile, Gennaro, instead of attending to the wants of the two newladies, carried Eustace into the house, as if it was the most naturalthing in the world.
"Ho capito," I heard him say as he passed me. 'Ho capito' is the Italianfor 'I have understood'; but, as Eustace had not spoken to him, I couldnot see the force of the remark. It served to increase our bewilderment,and, by the time we sat down at the dinner-table, our imaginations andour tongues were alike exhausted.
I omit from this account the various comments that were made, as few ofthem seem worthy of being recorded. But, for three or four hours, sevenof us were pouring forth our bewilderment in a stream of appropriate andinappropriate exclamations. Some traced a connection between ourbehaviour in the afternoon and the behaviour of Eustace now. Others sawno connexion at all. Mr. Sandbach still held to the possibility ofinfernal influences, and also said that he ought to have a doctor.Leyland only saw the development of "that unspeakable Philistine, theboy." Rose maintained, to my surprise, that everything was excusable;while I began to see that the young gentleman wanted a sound thrashing.The poor Miss Robinsons swayed helplessly about between these diverseopinions; inclining now to careful supervision, now to acquiescence, nowto corporal chastisement, now to Eno's Fruit Salt.
Dinner passed off fairly well, though Eustace was terribly fidgety,Gennaro as usual dropping the knives and spoons, and hawking andclearing his throat. He only knew a few words of English, and we wereall reduced to Italian for making known our wants. Eustace, who hadpicked up a little somehow, asked for some oranges. To my annoyance,Gennaro, in his answer made use of the second person singular--a formonly used when addressing those who are both intimates and equals.Eustace had brought it on himself; but an impertinence of this kind wasan affront to us all, and I was determined to speak, and to speak atonce.
When I heard him clearing the table I went in, and, summoning up myItalian, or rather Neapolitan--the Southern dialects are execrable--Isaid, "Gennaro! I heard you address Signor Eustace with 'Tu.'"
"It is true."
"You are not right. You must use 'Lei' or 'Voi'--more polite forms. Andremember that, though Signor Eustace is sometimes silly andfoolish--this afternoon for example--yet you must always behaverespectfully to him; for he is a young English gentleman, and you are apoor Italian fisher-boy."
I know that speech sounds terribly snobbish, but in Italian one can saythings that one would never dream of saying in English. Besides, it isno good speaking delicately to persons of that class. Unless you putthings plainly, they take a vicious pleasure in misunderstanding you.
An honest English fisherman would have landed me one in the eye in aminute for such a remark, but the wretched down-trodden Italians have nopride. Gennaro only sighed, and said: "It is true."
"Quite so," I said, and turned to go. To my indignation I heard him add:"But sometimes it is not important."
"What do you mean?" I shouted.
He came close up to me with horrid gesticulating fingers.
"Signor Tytler, I wish to say this. If Eustazio asks me to call him'Voi,' I will call him 'Voi.' Otherwise, no."
With that he seized up a tray of dinner things, and fled from the roomwith them; and I heard two more wine-glasses go on the court-yard floor.
I was now fairly angry, and strode out to interview Eustace. But he hadgone to bed, and the landlady, to whom I also wished to speak, wasengaged. After more vague wonderings, obscurely expressed owing to thepresence of Janet and the two American ladies, we all went to bed, too,after a harassing and most extraordinary day.


III

But the day was nothing to the night.
I suppose I had slept for about four hours, when I woke suddenlythinking I heard a noise in the garden. And, immediately, before my eyeswere open, cold terrible fear seized me--not fear of something that washappening, like the fear in the wood, but fear of something that mighthappen.
Our room was on the first floor, looking out on to the garden--orterrace, it was rather: a wedge-shaped block of ground covered withroses and vines, and intersected with little asphalt paths. It wasbounded on the small side by the house; round the two long sides ran awall, only three feet above the terrace level, but with a good twentyfeet drop over it into the olive yards, for the ground fell veryprecipitously away.
Trembling all over I stole to the window. There, pattering up and downthe asphalt, paths, was something white. I was too much alarmed to seeclearly; and in the uncertain light of the stars the thing took allmanner of curious shapes. Now it was a great dog, now an enormous whitebat, now a mass of quickly travelling cloud. It would bounce like aball, or take short flights like a bird, or glide slowly; like a wraith.It gave no sound--save the pattering sound of what, after all, must behuman feet. And at last the obvious explanation forced itself upon mydisordered mind; and I realized that Eustace had got out of bed, andthat we were in for something more.
I hastily dressed myself, and went down into the dining-room whichopened upon the terrace. The door was already unfastened. My terror hadalmost entirely passed away, but for quite five minutes I struggled witha curious cowardly feeling, which bade me not interfere with the poorstrange boy, but leave him to his ghostly patterings, and merely watchhim from the window, to see he took no harm.
But better impulses prevailed and, opening the door, I called out:
"Eustace! what on earth are you doing? Come in at once."
He stopped his antics, and said: "I hate my bedroom. I could not stop init, it is too small."
"Come! come! I'm tired of affectation. You've never complained of itbefore."
"Besides I can't see anything--no flowers, no leaves, no sky: only astone wall." The outlook of Eustace's room certainly was limited; but,as I told him, he had never complained of it before.
"Eustace, you talk like a child. Come in! Prompt obedience, if youplease."
He did not move.
"Very well: I shall carry you in by force." I added, and made a fewsteps towards him. But I was soon convinced of the futility of pursuinga boy through a tangle of asphalt paths, and went in instead, to callMr. Sandbach and Leyland to my aid.
When I returned with them he was worse than ever. He would not evenanswer us when we spoke, but began singing and chattering to himself ina most alarming way.
"It's a case for the doctor now," said Mr. Sandbach, gravely tapping hisforehead.
He had stopped his running and was singing, first low, thenloud--singing five-finger exercises, scales, hymn tunes, scraps ofWagner--anything that came into his head. His voice--a very untunefulvoice--grew stronger and stronger, and he ended with a tremendous shoutwhich boomed like a gun among the mountains, and awoke everyone who wasstill sleeping in the hotel. My poor wife and the two girls appeared attheir respective windows, and the American ladies were heard violentlyringing their bell.
"Eustace," we all cried, "stop! stop, dear boy, and come into thehouse."
He shook his head, and started off again--talking this time. Never haveI listened to such an extraordinary speech. At any other time it wouldhave been ludicrous, for here was a boy, with no sense of beauty and apuerile command of words, attempting to tackle themes which the greatestpoets have found almost beyond their power. Eustace Robinson, agedfourteen, was standing in his nightshirt saluting, praising, andblessing, the great forces and manifestations of Nature.
He spoke first of night and the stars and planets above his head, of theswarms of fire-flies below him, of the invisible sea below thefire-flies, of the great rocks covered with anemones and shells thatwere slumbering in the invisible sea. He spoke of the rivers andwater-falls, of the ripening bunches of grapes, of the smoking cone ofVesuvius and the hidden fire-channels that made the smoke, of themyriads of lizards who were lying curled up in the crannies of thesultry earth, of the showers of white rose-leaves that were tangled inhis hair. And then he spoke of the rain and the wind by which all thingsare changed, of the air through which all things live, and of the woodsin which all things can be hidden.
Of course, it was all absurdly high fainting: yet I could have kickedLeyland for audibly observing that it was 'a diabolical caricature ofall that was most holy and beautiful in life.'
"And then,"--Eustace was going on in the pitiable conversationaldoggerel which was his only mode of expression--"and then there aremen, but I can't make them out so well." He knelt down by the parapet,and rested his head on his arms.
"Now's the time," whispered Leyland. I hate stealth, but we dartedforward and endeavoured to catch hold of him from behind. He was away ina twinkling, but turned round at once to look at us. As far as I couldsee in the starlight, he was crying. Leyland rushed at him again, and wetried to corner him among the asphalt paths, but without the slightestapproach to success.
We returned, breathless and discomfited, leaving him to his madness inthe further corner of the terrace. But my Rose had an inspiration.
"Papa," she called from the window, "if you get Gennaro, he might beable to catch him for you."
I had no wish to ask a favour of Gennaro, but, as the landlady had bynow appeared on the scene, I begged her to summon him from thecharcoal-bin in which he slept, and make him try what he could do.
She soon returned, and was shortly followed by Gennaro, attired in adress coat, without either waistcoat, shirt, or vest, and a ragged pairof what had been trousers, cut short above the knees for purposes ofwading. The landlady, who had quite picked up English ways, rebuked himfor the incongruous and even indecent appearance which he presented.
"I have a coat and I have trousers. What more do you desire?"
"Never mind, Signora Scafetti," I put in, "As there are no ladies here,it is not of the slightest consequence." Then, turning to Gennaro, Isaid: "The aunts of Signor Eustace wish you to fetch him into thehouse."
He did not answer.
"Do you hear me? He is not well. I order you to fetch him into thehouse."
"Fetch! fetch!" said Signora Scafetti, and shook him roughly by the arm.
"Eustazio is well where he is."
"Fetch! fetch!" Signora Scafetti screamed, and let loose a flood ofItalian, most of which, I am glad to say, I could not follow. I glancedup nervously at the girls' window, but they hardly know as much as I do,and I am thankful to say that none of us caught one word of Gennaro'sanswer.
The two yelled and shouted at each other for quite ten minutes, at theend of which Gennaro rushed back to his charcoal-bin and SignoraScafetti burst into tears, as well she might, for she greatly valued herEnglish guests.
"He says," she sobbed, "that Signer Eustace is well where he is, andthat he will not fetch him. I can do no more."
But I could, for, in my stupid British way, I have got some insight intothe Italian character. I followed Mr. Gennaro to his place of repose,and found him wriggling down on to a dirty sack.
"I wish you to fetch Signor Eustace to me," I began.
He hurled at me an unintelligible reply.
"If you fetch him, I will give you this." And out of my pocket I took anew ten lira note.
This time he did not answer.
"This note is equal to ten lire in silver," I continued, for I knew thatthe poor-class Italian is unable to conceive of a single large sum.
"I know it."
"That is, two hundred soldi."
"I do not desire them. Eustazio is my friend."
I put the note into my pocket.
"Besides, you would not give it me."
"I am an Englishman. The English always do what they promise."
"That is true." It is astonishing how the most dishonest of nationstrust us. Indeed they often trust us more than we trust one another.Gennaro knelt up on his sack. It was too dark to see his face, but Icould feel his warm garlicky breath coming out in gasps, and I knew thatthe eternal avarice of the South had laid hold upon him.
"I could not fetch Eustazio to the house. He might die there."
"You need not do that," I replied patiently. "You need only bring him tome; and I will stand outside in the garden." And to this, as if it weresomething quite different, the pitiable youth consented.
"But give me first the ten lire."
"No,"--for I knew the kind of person with whom I had to deal. Oncefaithless, always faithless.
We returned to the terrace, and Gennaro, without a single word, patteredoff towards the pattering that could be heard at the remoter end. Mr.Sandbach, Leyland, and myself moved away a little from the house, andstood in the shadow of the white climbing roses, practically invisible.
We heard "Eustazio" called, followed by absurd cries of pleasure fromthe poor boy. The pattering ceased, and we heard them talking. Theirvoices got nearer, and presently I could discern them through thecreepers, the grotesque figure of the young man, and the slim littlewhite-robed boy. Gennaro had his arm round Eustace's neck, and Eustacewas talking away in his fluent, slip-shod Italian.
"I understand almost everything," I heard him say. "The trees, hills,stars, water, I can see all. But isn't it odd! I can't make out men abit. Do you know what I mean?"
"Ho capito," said Gennaro gravely, and took his arm off Eustace'sshoulder. But I made the new note crackle in my pocket; and he heard it.He stuck his hand out with a jerk; and the unsuspecting Eustace grippedit in his own.
"It is odd!" Eustace went on--they were quite close now--"It almostseems as if--as if----"
I darted out and caught hold of his arm, and Leyland got hold of theother arm, and Mr. Sandbach hung on to his feet. He gave shrillheart-piercing screams; and the white roses, which were falling earlythat year, descended in showers on him as we dragged him into the house.
As soon as we entered the house he stopped shrieking; but floods oftears silently burst forth, and spread over his upturned face.
"Not to my room," he pleaded. "It is so small."
His infinitely dolorous look filled me with strange pity, but what couldI do? Besides, his window was the only one that had bars to it.
"Never mind, dear boy," said kind Mr. Sandbach. "I will bear you companytill the morning."
At this his convulsive struggles began again. "Oh, please, not that.Anything but that. I will promise to lie still and not to cry more thanI can help, if I am left alone."
So we laid him on the bed, and drew the sheets over him, and left himsobbing bitterly, and saying: "I nearly saw everything, and now I cansee nothing at all."
We informed the Miss Robinsons of all that had happened, and returned tothe dining-room, where we found Signora Scafetti and Gennaro whisperingtogether. Mr. Sandbach got pen and paper, and began writing to theEnglish doctor at Naples. I at once drew out the note, and flung it downon the table to Gennaro.
"Here is your pay," I said sternly, for I was thinking of the ThirtyPieces of Silver.
"Thank you very much, sir," said Gennaro, and grabbed it.
He was going off, when Leyland, whose interest and indifference werealways equally misplaced, asked him what Eustace had meant by saying 'hecould not make out men a bit.'
"I cannot say. Signor Eustazio--" (I was glad to observe a littledeference at last) "has a subtle brain. He understands many things."
"But I heard you say you understood," Leyland persisted.
"I understand, but I cannot explain. I am a poor Italian fisher-lad.Yet, listen: I will try." I saw to my alarm that his manner waschanging, and tried to stop him. But he sat down on the edge of thetable and started off, with some absolutely incoherent remarks.
"It is sad," he observed at last. "What has happened is very sad. Butwhat can I do? I am poor. It is not I."
I turned away in contempt. Leyland went on asking questions. He wantedto know who it was that Eustace had in his mind when he spoke.
"That is easy to say," Gennaro gravely answered. "It is you, it is I. Itis all in this house, and many outside it. If he wishes for mirth, wediscomfort him. If he asks to be alone, we disturb him. He longed for afriend, and found none for fifteen years. Then he found me, and thefirst night I--I who have been in the woods and understood thingstoo--betray him to you, and send him in to die. But what could I do?"
"Gently, gently," said I.
"Oh, assuredly he will die. He will lie in the small room all night, andin the morning he will be dead. That I know for certain."
"There, that will do," said Mr. Sandbach. "I shall be sitting with him."
"Filomena Giusti sat all night with Caterina, but Caterina was dead inthe morning. They would not let her out, though I begged, and prayed,and cursed, and beat the door, and climbed the wall. They were ignorantfools, and thought I wished to carry her away. And in the morning shewas dead."
"What is all this?" I asked Signora Scafetti.
"All kinds of stories will get about," she replied, "and he, least ofanyone, has reason to repeat them."
"And I am alive now," he went on, "because I had neither parents norrelatives nor friends, so that, when the first night came, I could runthrough the woods, and climb the rocks, and plunge into the water, untilI had accomplished my desire!"
We heard a cry from Eustace's room--a faint but steady sound, like thesound of wind in a distant wood, heard by one standing in tranquillity.
"That," said Gennaro, "was the last noise of Caterina. I was hanging onto her window then, and it blew out past me."
And, lifting up his hand, in which my ten lira note was safely packed,he solemnly cursed Mr. Sandbach, and Leyland, and myself, and Fate,because Eustace was dying in the upstairs room. Such is the working ofthe Southern mind; and I verily believe that he would not have movedeven then, had not Leyland, that unspeakable idiot, upset the lamp withhis elbow. It was a patent self-extinguishing lamp, bought by SignoraScafetti, at my special request, to replace the dangerous thing that shewas using. The result was, that it went out; and the mere physicalchange from light to darkness had more power over the ignorant animalnature of Gennaro than the most obvious dictates of logic and reason.
I felt, rather than saw, that he had left the room, and shouted out toMr. Sandbach: "Have you got the key of Eustace's room in your pocket?"But Mr. Sandbach and Leyland were both on the floor, having mistakeneach other for Gennaro, and some more precious time was wasted infinding a match. Mr. Sandbach had only just time to say that he had leftthe key in the door, in case the Miss Robinsons wished to pay Eustace avisit, when we heard a noise on the stairs, and there was Gennaro,carrying Eustace down.
We rushed out and blocked up the passage, and they lost heart andretreated to the upper landing.
"Now they are caught," cried Signora Scafetti. "There is no other wayout."
We were cautiously ascending the staircase, when there was a terrificscream from my wife's room, followed by a heavy thud on the asphaltpath. They had leapt out of her window.
I reached the terrace just in time to see Eustace jumping over theparapet of the garden wall. This time I knew for certain he would bekilled. But he alighted in an olive tree, looking like a great whitemoth; and from the tree he slid on to the earth. And as soon as his barefeet touched the clods of earth he uttered a strange loud cry, such as Ishould not have thought the human voice could have produced, anddisappeared among the trees below.
"He has understood and he is saved," cried Gennaro, who was stillsitting on the asphalt path. "Now, instead of dying he will live!"
"And you, instead of keeping the ten lire, will give them up," Iretorted, for at this theatrical remark I could contain myself nolonger.
"The ten lire are mine," he hissed back, in a scarcely audible voice. Heclasped his hand over his breast to protect his ill-gotten gains, and,as he did so, he swayed forward and fell upon his face on the path. Hehad not broken any limbs, and a leap like that would never have killedan Englishman, for the drop was not great. But those miserable Italianshave no stamina. Something had gone wrong inside him, and he was dead.
The morning was still far off, but the morning breeze had begun, andmore rose leaves fell on us as we carried him in. Signora Scafetti burstinto screams at the sight of the dead body, and, far down the valleytowards the sea, there still resounded the shouts and the laughter ofthe escaping boy.



THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HEDGE

My pedometer told me that I was twenty-five; and, though it is ashocking thing to stop walking, I was so tired that I sat down on amilestone to rest. People outstripped me, jeering as they did so, but Iwas too apathetic to feel resentful, and even when Miss Eliza Dimbleby,the great educationist, swept past, exhorting me to persevere, I onlysmiled and raised my hat.
At first I thought I was going to be like my brother, whom I had had toleave by the road-side a year or two round the corner. He had wasted hisbreath on singing, and his strength on helping others. But I hadtravelled more wisely, and now it was only the monotony of the highwaythat oppressed me--dust under foot and brown crackling hedges on eitherside, ever since I could remember.
And I had already dropped several things--indeed, the road behind wasstrewn with the things we all had dropped; and the white dust wassettling down on them, so that already they looked no better thanstones. My muscles were so weary that I could not even bear the weightof those things I still carried. I slid off the milestone into the road,and lay there prostrate, with my face to the great parched hedge,praying that I might give up.
A little puff of air revived me. It seemed to come from the hedge; and,when I opened my eyes, there was a glint of light through the tangle ofboughs and dead leaves. The hedge could not be as thick as usual. In myweak, morbid state, I longed to force my way in, and see what was on theother side. No one was in sight, or I should not have dared to try. Forwe of the road do not admit in conversation that there is another sideat all.
I yielded to the temptation, saying to myself that I would come back ina minute. The thorns scratched my face, and I had to use my arms as ashield, depending on my feet alone to push me forward. Halfway through Iwould have gone back, for in the passage all the things I was carryingwere scraped off me, and my clothes were torn. But I was so wedged thatreturn was impossible, and I had to wriggle blindly forward, expectingevery moment that my strength would fail me, and that I should perish inthe undergrowth.
Suddenly cold water closed round my head, and I seemed sinking down forever. I had fallen out of the hedge into a deep pool. I rose to thesurface at last, crying for help, and I heard someone on the oppositebank laugh and say: "Another!" And then I was twitched out and laidpanting on the dry ground.
Even when the water was out of my eyes, I was still dazed, for I hadnever been in so large a space, nor seen such grass and sunshine. Theblue sky was no longer a strip, and beneath it the earth had risengrandly into hills--clean, bare buttresses, with beech trees in theirfolds, and meadows and clear pools at their feet. But the hills were nothigh, and there was in the landscape a sense of human occupation--sothat one might have called it a park, or garden, if the words did notimply a certain triviality and constraint.
As soon as I got my breath, I turned to my rescuer and said:
"Where does this place lead to?"
"Nowhere, thank the Lord!" said he, and laughed. He was a man of fiftyor sixty--just the kind of age we mistrust on the road--but there was noanxiety in his manner, and his voice was that of a boy of eighteen.
"But it must lead somewhere!" I cried, too much surprised at his answerto thank him for saving my life.
"He wants to know where it leads!" he shouted to some men on the hillside, and they laughed back, and waved their caps.
I noticed then that the pool into which I had fallen was really a moatwhich bent round to the left and to the right, and that the hedgefollowed it continually. The hedge was green on this side--its rootsshowed through the clear water, and fish swam about in them--and it waswreathed over with dog-roses and Traveller's Joy. But it was a barrier,and in a moment I lost all pleasure in the grass, the sky, the trees,the happy men and women, and realized that the place was but a prison,for all its beauty and extent.
We moved away from the boundary, and then followed a path almostparallel to it, across the meadows. I found it difficult walking, for Iwas always trying to out-distance my companion, and there was noadvantage in doing this if the place led nowhere. I had never kept stepwith anyone since I left my brother.
I amused him by stopping suddenly and saying disconsolately, "This isperfectly terrible. One cannot advance: one cannot progress. Now we ofthe road----"
"Yes. I know."
"I was going to say, we advance continually."
"I know."
"We are always learning, expanding, developing. Why, even in my shortlife I have seen a great deal of advance--the Transvaal War, the FiscalQuestion, Christian Science, Radium. Here for example--"
I took out my pedometer, but it still marked twenty-five, not a degreemore.
"Oh, it's stopped! I meant to show you. It should have registered allthe time I was walking with you. But it makes me only twenty-five."
"Many things don't work in here," he said, "One day a man brought in aLee-Metford, and that wouldn't work."
"The laws of science are universal in their application. It must be thewater in the moat that has injured the machinery. In normal conditionseverything works. Science and the spirit of emulation--those are theforces that have made us what we are."
I had to break off and acknowledge the pleasant greetings of people whomwe passed. Some of them were singing, some talking, some engaged ingardening, hay-making, or other rudimentary industries. They all seemedhappy; and I might have been happy too, if I could have forgotten thatthe place led nowhere.
I was startled by a young man who came sprinting across our path, took alittle fence in fine style, and went tearing over a ploughed field tillhe plunged into a lake, across which he began to swim. Here was trueenergy, and I exclaimed: "A cross-country race! Where are the others?"
"There are no others," my companion replied; and, later on, when wepassed some long grass from which came the voice of a girl singingexquisitely to herself, he said again: "There are no others." I wasbewildered at the waste in production, and murmured to myself, "Whatdoes it all mean?"
He said: "It means nothing but itself"--and he repeated the wordsslowly, as if I were a child.
"I understand," I said quietly, "but I do not agree. Every achievementis worthless unless it is a link in the chain of development. And I mustnot trespass on your kindness any longer. I must get back somehow to theroad, and have my pedometer mended."
"First, you must see the gates," he replied, "for we have gates, thoughwe never use them."
I yielded politely, and before long we reached the moat again, at apoint where it was spanned by a bridge. Over the bridge was a big gate,as white as ivory, which was fitted into a gap in the boundary hedge.The gate opened outwards, and I exclaimed in amazement, for from it rana road--just such a road as I had left--dusty under foot, with browncrackling hedges on either side as far as the eye could reach.
"That's my road!" I cried.
He shut the gate and said: "But not your part of the road. It is throughthis gate that humanity went out countless ages ago, when it was firstseized with the desire to walk."
I denied this, observing that the part of the road I myself had left wasnot more than two miles off. But with the obstinacy of his years herepeated: "It is the same road. This is the beginning, and though itseems to run straight away from us, it doubles so often, that it isnever far from our boundary and sometimes touches it." He stooped downby the moat, and traced on its moist margin an absurd figure like amaze. As we walked back through the meadows, I tried to convince him ofhis mistake.
"The road sometimes doubles, to be sure, but that is part of ourdiscipline. Who can doubt that its general tendency is onward? To whatgoal we know not--it may be to some mountain where we shall touch thesky, it may be over precipices into the sea. But that it goes forward--who can doubt that? It is the thought of that that makes us strive toexcel, each in his own way, and gives us an impetus which is lackingwith you. Now that man who passed us--it's true that he ran well, andjumped well, and swam well; but we have men who can run better, and menwho can jump better, and who can swim better. Specialization hasproduced results which would surprise you. Similarly, that girl----"
Here I interrupted myself to exclaim: "Good gracious me! I could havesworn it was Miss Eliza Dimbleby over there, with her feet in thefountain!"
He believed that it was.
"Impossible! I left her on the road, and she is due to lecture thisevening at Tunbridge Wells. Why, her train leaves Cannon Street in--ofcourse my watch has stopped like everything else. She is the last personto be here."
"People always are astonished at meeting each other. All kinds comethrough the hedge, and come at all times--when they are drawing ahead inthe race, when they are lagging behind, when they are left for dead. Ioften stand near the boundary listening to the sounds of the road--youknow what they are--and wonder if anyone will turn aside. It is my greathappiness to help someone out of the moat, as I helped you. For ourcountry fills up slowly, though it was meant for all mankind."
"Mankind have other aims," I said gently, for I thought himwell-meaning; "and I must join them." I bade him good evening, for thesun was declining, and I wished to be on the road by nightfall. To myalarm, he caught hold of me, crying: "You are not to go yet!" I tried toshake him off, for we had no interests in common, and his civility wasbecoming irksome to me. But for all my struggles the tiresome old manwould not let go; and, as wrestling is not my speciality, I was obligedto follow him.
It was true that I could have never found alone the place where I camein, and I hoped that, when I had seen the other sights about which hewas worrying, he would take me back to it. But I was determined not tosleep in the country, for I mistrusted it, and the people too, for alltheir friendliness. Hungry though I was, I would not join them in theirevening meals of milk and fruit, and, when they gave me flowers, I flungthem away as soon as I could do so unobserved. Already they were lyingdown for the night like cattle--some out on the bare hillside, others ingroups under the beeches. In the light of an orange sunset I hurried onwith my unwelcome guide, dead tired, faint for want of food, butmurmuring indomitably: "Give me life, with its struggles and victories,with its failures and hatreds, with its deep moral meaning and itsunknown goal!"
At last we came to a place where the encircling moat was spanned byanother bridge, and where another gate interrupted the line of theboundary hedge. It was different from the first gate; for it was halftransparent like horn, and opened inwards. But through it, in the waninglight, I saw again just such a road as I had left--monotonous, dusty,with brown crackling hedges on either side, as far as the eye couldreach.
I was strangely disquieted at the sight, which seemed to deprive me ofall self-control. A man was passing us, returning for the night to thehills, with a scythe over his shoulder and a can of some liquid in hishand. I forgot the destiny of our race. I forgot the road that laybefore my eyes, and I sprang at him, wrenched the can out of his hand,and began to drink.
It was nothing stronger than beer, but in my exhausted state it overcameme in a moment. As in a dream, I saw the old man shut the gate, andheard him say: "This is where your road ends, and through this gatehumanity--all that is left of it--will come in to us."
Though my senses were sinking into oblivion, they seemed to expand erethey reached it. They perceived the magic song of nightingales, and theodour of invisible hay, and stars piercing the fading sky. The man whosebeer I had stolen lowered me down gently to sleep off its effects, and,as he did so, I saw that he was my brother.



THE CELESTIAL OMNIBUS

I

The boy who resided at Agathox Lodge, 28, Buckingham Park Road,Surbiton, had often been puzzled by the old sign-post that stood almostopposite. He asked his mother about it, and she replied that it was ajoke, and not a very nice one, which had been made many years back bysome naughty young men, and that the police ought to remove it. Forthere were two strange things about this sign-post: firstly, it pointedup a blank alley, and, secondly, it had painted on it in fadedcharacters, the words, "To Heaven."
"What kind of young men were they?" he asked.
"I think your father told me that one of them wrote verses, and wasexpelled from the University and came to grief in other ways. Still, itwas a long time ago. You must ask your father about it. He will say thesame as I do, that it was put up as a joke."
"So it doesn't mean anything at all?"
She sent him upstairs to put on his best things, for the Bonses werecoming to tea, and he was to hand the cake-stand.
It struck him, as he wrenched on his tightening trousers, that he mightdo worse than ask Mr. Bons about the sign-post. His father, though verykind, always laughed at him--shrieked with laughter whenever he or anyother child asked a question or spoke. But Mr. Bons was serious as wellas kind. He had a beautiful house and lent one books, he was achurchwarden, and a candidate for the County Council; he had donated tothe Free Library enormously, he presided over the Literary Society, andhad Members of Parliament to stop with him--in short, he was probablythe wisest person alive.
Yet even Mr. Bons could only say that the sign-post was a joke--the jokeof a person named Shelley.
"Off course!" cried the mother; "I told you so, dear. That was thename."
"Had you never heard of Shelley?" asked Mr. Bons.
"No," said the boy, and hung his head.
"But is there no Shelley in the house?"
"Why, yes!" exclaimed the lady, in much agitation. "Dear Mr. Bons, wearen't such Philistines as that. Two at the least. One a weddingpresent, and the other, smaller print, in one of the spare rooms."
"I believe we have seven Shelleys," said Mr. Bons, with a slow smile.Then he brushed the cake crumbs off his stomach, and, together with hisdaughter, rose to go.
The boy, obeying a wink from his mother, saw them all the way to thegarden gate, and when they had gone he did not at once return to thehouse, but gazed for a little up and down Buckingham Park Road.
His parents lived at the right end of it. After No. 39 the quality ofthe houses dropped very suddenly, and 64 had not even a separateservants' entrance. But at the present moment the whole road lookedrather pretty, for the sun had just set in splendour, and theinequalities of rent were drowned in a saffron afterglow. Small birdstwittered, and the breadwinners' train shrieked musically down throughthe cutting--that wonderful cutting which has drawn to itself the wholebeauty out of Surbiton, and clad itself, like any Alpine valley, withthe glory of the fir and the silver birch and the primrose. It was thiscutting that had first stirred desires within the boy--desires forsomething just a little different, he knew not what, desires that wouldreturn whenever things were sunlit, as they were this evening, runningup and down inside him, up and down, up and down, till he would feelquite unusual all over, and as likely as not would want to cry. Thisevening he was even sillier, for he slipped across the road towards thesign-post and began to run up the blank alley.
The alley runs between high walls--the walls of the gardens of "Ivanhoe"and "Belle Vista" respectively. It smells a little all the way, and isscarcely twenty yards long, including the turn at the end. So notunnaturally the boy soon came to a standstill. "I'd like to kick thatShelley," he exclaimed, and glanced idly at a piece of paper which waspasted on the wall. Rather an odd piece of paper, and he read itcarefully before he turned back. This is what he read:
            S. AND C.R.C.C.      _Alteration in Service._
Owing to lack of patronage the Company are regretfully compelled tosuspend the hourly service, and to retain only the
       _Sunrise and Sunset Omnibuses,_
which will run as usual. It is to be hoped that the public willpatronize an arrangement which is intended for their convenience. As anextra inducement, the Company will, for the first time, now issue
               Return Tickets!
(available one day only), which may be obtained of the driver.Passengers are again reminded that _no tickets are issued at the otherend_, and that no complaints in this connection will receiveconsideration from the Company. Nor will the Company be responsible forany negligence or stupidity on the part of Passengers, nor forHailstorms, Lightning, Loss of Tickets, nor for any Act of God.
                                For the Direction.
Now he had never seen this notice before, nor could he imagine where theomnibus went to. S. of course was for Surbiton, and R.C.C. meant RoadCar Company. But what was the meaning or the other C.? Coombe andMaiden, perhaps, of possibly "City." Yet it could not hope to competewith the South-Western. The whole thing, the boy reflected, was run onhopelessly unbusiness-like lines. Why no tickets from the other end? Andwhat an hour to start! Then he realized that unless the notice was ahoax, an omnibus must have been starting just as he was wishing theBonses good-bye. He peered at the ground through the gathering dusk, andthere he saw what might or might not be the marks of wheels. Yet nothinghad come out of the alley. And he had never seen an omnibus at any timein the Buckingham Park Road. No: it must be a hoax, like the sign-posts,like the fairy tales, like the dreams upon which he would wake suddenlyin the night. And with a sigh he stepped from the alley--right into thearms of his father.
Oh, how his father laughed! "Poor, poor Popsey!" he cried. "Diddums!Diddums! Diddums think he'd walky-palky up to Evvink!" And his mother,also convulsed with laughter, appeared on the steps of Agathox Lodge."Don't, Bob!" she gasped. "Don't be so naughty! Oh, you'll kill me! Oh,leave the boy alone!"
But all that evening the joke was kept up. The father implored to betaken too. Was it a very tiring walk? Need one wipe one's shoes on thedoor-mat? And the boy went to bed feeling faint and sore, and thankfulfor only one thing--that he had not said a word about the omnibus. Itwas a hoax, yet through his dreams it grew more and more real, and thestreets of Surbiton, through which he saw it driving, seemed instead tobecome hoaxes and shadows. And very early in the morning he woke with acry, for he had had a glimpse of its destination.
He struck a match, and its light fell not only on his watch but also onhis calendar, so that he knew it to be half-an-hour to sunrise. It waspitch dark, for the fog had come down from London in the night, and allSurbiton was wrapped in its embraces. Yet he sprang out and dressedhimself, for he was determined to settle once for all which was real:the omnibus or the streets. "I shall be a fool one way or the other," hethought, "until I know." Soon he was shivering in the road under the gaslamp that guarded the entrance to the alley.
To enter the alley itself required some courage. Not only was ithorribly dark, but he now realized that it was an impossible terminusfor an omnibus. If it had not been for a policeman, whom he heardapproaching through the fog, he would never have made the attempt. Thenext moment he had made the attempt and failed. Nothing. Nothing but ablank alley and a very silly boy gaping at its dirty floor. It _was_ ahoax. "I'll tell papa and mamma," he decided. "I deserve it. I deservethat they should know. I am too silly to be alive." And he went back tothe gate of Agathox Lodge.
There he remembered that his watch was fast. The sun was not risen; itwould not rise for two minutes. "Give the bus every chance," he thoughtcynically, and returned into the alley.
But the omnibus was there.


II

It had two horses, whose sides were still smoking from their journey,and its two great lamps shone through the fog against the alley's walls,changing their cobwebs and moss into tissues of fairyland. The driverwas huddled up in a cape. He faced the blank wall, and how he hadmanaged to drive in so neatly and so silently was one of the many thingsthat the boy never discovered. Nor could he imagine how ever he woulddrive out.
"Please," his voice quavered through the foul brown air, "Please, isthat an omnibus?"
"Omnibus est," said the driver, without turning round. There was amoment's silence. The policeman passed, coughing, by the entrance of thealley. The boy crouched in the shadow, for he did not want to be foundout. He was pretty sure, too, that it was a Pirate; nothing else, hereasoned, would go from such odd places and at such odd hours.
"About when do you start?" He tried to sound nonchalant.
"At sunrise."
"How far do you go?"
"The whole way."
"And can I have a return ticket which will bring me all the way back?"
"You can."
"Do you know, I half think I'll come." The driver made no answer. Thesun must have risen, for he unhitched the brake. And scarcely had theboy jumped in before the omnibus was off.
How? Did it turn? There was no room. Did it go forward? There was ablank wall. Yet it was moving--moving at a stately pace through the fog,which had turned from brown to yellow. The thought of warm bed andwarmer breakfast made the boy feel faint. He wished he had not come. Hisparents would not have approved. He would have gone back to them if theweather had not made it impossible. The solitude was terrible; he wasthe only passenger. And the omnibus, though well-built, was cold andsomewhat musty. He drew his coat round him, and in so doing chanced tofeel his pocket. It was empty. He had forgotten his purse.
"Stop!" he shouted. "Stop!" And then, being of a polite disposition, heglanced up at the painted notice-board so that he might call the driverby name. "Mr. Browne! stop; O, do please stop!"
Mr. Browne did not stop, but he opened a little window and looked in atthe boy. His face was a surprise, so kind it was and modest.
"Mr. Browne, I've left my purse behind. I've not got a penny. I can'tpay for the ticket. Will you take my watch, please? I am in the mostawful hole."
"Tickets on this line," said the driver, "whether single or return, canbe purchased by coinage from no terrene mint. And a chronometer, thoughit had solaced the vigils of Charlemagne, or measured the slumbers ofLaura, can acquire by no mutation the double-cake that charms thefangless Cerberus of Heaven!" So saying, he handed in the necessaryticket, and, while the boy said "Thank you," continued: "Titularpretensions, I know it well, are vanity. Yet they merit no censure whenuttered on a laughing lip, and in an homonymous world are in some sortuseful, since they do serve to distinguish one Jack from his fellow.Remember me, therefore, as Sir Thomas Browne."
"Are you a Sir? Oh, sorry!" He had heard of these gentlemen drivers. "It_is_ good of you about the ticket. But if you go on at this rate,however does your bus pay?"
"It does not pay. It was not intended to pay. Many are the faults of myequipage; it is compounded too curiously of foreign woods; its cushionstickle erudition rather than promote repose; and my horses are nourishednot on the evergreen pastures of the moment, but on the dried bents andclovers of Latinity. But that it pays!--that error at all events wasnever intended and never attained."
"Sorry again," said the boy rather hopelessly. Sir Thomas looked sad,fearing that, even for a moment, he had been the cause of sadness. Heinvited the boy to come up and sit beside him on the box, and togetherthey journeyed on through the fog, which was now changing from yellow towhite. There were no houses by the road; so it must be either PutneyHeath or Wimbledon Common.
"Have you been a driver always?"
"I was a physician once."
"But why did you stop? Weren't you good?"
"As a healer of bodies I had scant success, and several score of mypatients preceded me. But as a healer of the spirit I have succeededbeyond my hopes and my deserts. For though my draughts were not betternor subtler than those of other men, yet, by reason of the cunninggoblets wherein I offered them, the queasy soul was ofttimes tempted tosip and be refreshed."
"The queasy soul," he murmured; "if the sun sets with trees in front ofit, and you suddenly come strange all over, is that a queasy soul?"
"Have you felt that?"
"Why yes."
After a pause he told the boy a little, a very little, about thejourney's end. But they did not chatter much, for the boy, when he likeda person, would as soon sit silent in his company as speak, and this, hediscovered, was also the mind of Sir Thomas Browne and of many otherswith whom he was to be acquainted. He heard, however, about the youngman Shelley, who was now quite a famous person, with a carriage of hisown, and about some of the other drivers who are in the service of theCompany. Meanwhile the light grew stronger, though the fog did notdisperse. It was now more like mist than fog, and at times would travelquickly across them, as if it was part of a cloud. They had beenascending, too, in a most puzzling way; for over two hours the horseshad been pulling against the collar, and even if it were Richmond Hillthey ought to have been at the top long ago. Perhaps it was Epsom, oreven the North Downs; yet the air seemed keener than that which blows oneither. And as to the name of their destination, Sir Thomas Browne wassilent.
Crash!
"Thunder, by Jove!" said the boy, "and not so far off either. Listen tothe echoes! It's more like mountains."
He thought, not very vividly, of his father and mother. He saw themsitting down to sausages and listening to the storm. He saw his ownempty place. Then there would be questions, alarms, theories, jokes,consolations. They would expect him back at lunch. To lunch he would notcome, nor to tea, but he would be in for dinner, and so his day'struancy would be over. If he had had his purse he would have bought thempresents--not that he should have known what to get them.
Crash!
The peal and the lightning came together. The cloud quivered as if itwere alive, and torn streamers of mist rushed past. "Are you afraid?"asked Sir Thomas Browne.
"What is there to be afraid of? Is it much farther?"
The horses of the omnibus stopped just as a ball of fire burst up andexploded with a ringing noise that was deafening but clear, like thenoise of a blacksmith's forge. All the cloud was shattered.
"Oh, listen. Sir Thomas Browne! No, I mean look; we shall get a view atlast. No, I mean listen; that sounds like a rainbow!"
The noise had died into the faintest murmur, beneath which anothermurmur grew, spreading stealthily, steadily, in a curve that widened butdid not vary. And in widening curves a rainbow was spreading from thehorses' feet into the dissolving mists.
"But how beautiful! What colours! Where will it stop? It is more likethe rainbows you can tread on. More like dreams."
The colour and the sound grew together. The rainbow spanned an enormousgulf. Clouds rushed under it and were pierced by it, and still it grew,reaching forward, conquering the darkness, until it touched somethingthat seemed more solid than a cloud.
The boy stood up. "What is that out there?" he called. "What does itrest on, out at that other end?"
In the morning sunshine a precipice shone forth beyond the gulf Aprecipice--or was it a castle? The horses moved. They set their feetupon the rainbow.
"Oh, look!" the boy shouted. "Oh, listen! Those caves--or are theygateways? Oh, look between those cliffs at those ledges. I see people! Isee trees!"
"Look also below," whispered Sir Thomas. "Neglect not the divinerAcheron."
The boy looked below, past the flames of the rainbow that licked againsttheir wheels. The gulf also had cleared, and in its depths there flowedan everlasting river. One sunbeam entered and struck a green pool, andas they passed over he saw three maidens rise to the surface of thepool, singing, and playing with something that glistened like a ring.
"You down in the water----" he called.
They answered, "You up on the bridge----" There was a burst of music."You up on the bridge, good luck to you. Truth in the depth, truth onthe height."
"You down in the water, what are you doing?"
Sir Thomas Browne replied: "They sport in the mancipiary possession oftheir gold"; and the omnibus arrived.


III

The boy was in disgrace. He sat locked up in the nursery of AgathoxLodge, learning poetry for a punishment. His father had said, "My boy! Ican pardon anything but untruthfulness," and had caned him, saying ateach stroke, "There is _no_ omnibus, _no_ driver, _no_ bridge, _no_mountain; you are a _truant_, _guttersnipe_, a _liar_." His fathercould be very stern at times. His mother had begged him to say he wassorry. But he could not say that. It was the greatest day of his life,in spite of the caning, and the poetry at the end of it.
He had returned punctually at sunset--driven not by Sir Thomas Browne,but by a maiden lady who was full of quiet fun. They had talked ofomnibuses and also of barouche landaus. How far away her gentle voiceseemed now! Yet it was scarcely three hours since he had left her up thealley.
His mother called through the door. "Dear, you are to come down and tobring your poetry with you."
He came down, and found that Mr. Bons was in the smoking-room with hisfather. It had been a dinner party.
"Here is the great traveller!" said his father grimly. "Here is theyoung gentleman who drives in an omnibus over rainbows, while youngladies sing to him." Pleased with his wit, he laughed.
"After all," said Mr. Bons, smiling, "there is something a little likeit in Wagner. It is odd how, in quite illiterate minds, you will findglimmers of Artistic Truth. The case interests me. Let me plead for theculprit. We have all romanced in our time, haven't we?"
"Hear how kind Mr. Bons is," said his mother, while his father said,"Very well. Let him say his Poem, and that will do. He is going away tomy sister on Tuesday, and she will cure him of this alley-slopering."(Laughter.) "Say your Poem."
The boy began. "'Standing aloof in giant ignorance.'"
His father laughed again--roared. "One for you, my son! 'Standing aloofin giant ignorance!' I never knew these poets talked sense. Justdescribes you. Here, Bons, you go in for poetry. Put him through it,will you, while I fetch up the whisky?"
"Yes, give me the Keats," said Mr. Bons. "Let him say his Keats to me."
So for a few moments the wise man and the ignorant boy were left alonein the smoking-room.
"'Standing aloof in giant ignorance, of thee I dream and of theCyclades, as one who sits ashore and longs perchance to visit----'"
"Quite right. To visit what?"
"'To visit dolphin coral in deep seas,'" said the boy, and burst intotears.
"Come, come! why do you cry?"
"Because--because all these words that only rhymed before, now that I'vecome back they're me."
Mr. Bons laid the Keats down. The case was more interesting than he hadexpected. "_You?_" he exclaimed, "This sonnet, _you_?"
"Yes--and look further on: 'Aye, on the shores of darkness there islight, and precipices show untrodden green.' It _is_ so, sir. All thesethings are true."
"I never doubted it," said Mr. Bons, with closed eyes.
"You--then you believe me? You believe in the omnibus and the driver andthe storm and that return ticket I got for nothing and----"
"Tut, tut! No more of your yarns, my boy. I meant that I never doubtedthe essential truth of Poetry. Some day, when you read more, you willunderstand what I mean."
"But Mr. Bons, it _is_ so. There _is_ light upon the shores of darkness.I have seen it coming. Light and a wind."
"Nonsense," said Mr. Bons.
"If I had stopped! They tempted me. They told me to give up myticket--for you cannot come back if you lose your ticket. They calledfrom the river for it, and indeed I was tempted, for I have never beenso happy as among those precipices. But I thought of my mother andfather, and that I must fetch them. Yet they will not come, though theroad starts opposite our house. It has all happened as the people upthere warned me, and Mr. Bons has disbelieved me like every one else. Ihave been caned. I shall never see that mountain again."
"What's that about me?" said Mr. Bons, sitting up in his chair verysuddenly.
"I told them about you, and how clever you were, and how many books youhad, and they said, 'Mr. Bons will certainly disbelieve you.'"
"Stuff and nonsense, my young friend. You grow impertinent. I--well--Iwill settle the matter. Not a word to your father. I will cure you.To-morrow evening I will myself call here to take you for a walk, and atsunset we will go up this alley opposite and hunt for your omnibus, yousilly little boy."
His face grew serious, for the boy was not disconcerted, but leapt aboutthe room singing, "Joy! joy! I told them you would believe me. We willdrive together over the rainbow. I told them that you would come." Afterall, could there be anything in the story? Wagner? Keats? Shelley? SirThomas Browne? Certainly the case was interesting.
And on the morrow evening, though it was pouring with rain, Mr. Bons didnot omit to call at Agathox Lodge.
The boy was ready, bubbling with excitement, and skipping about in a waythat rather vexed the President of the Literary Society. They took aturn down Buckingham Park Road, and then--having seen that no one waswatching them--slipped up the alley. Naturally enough (for the sun wassetting) they ran straight against the omnibus.
"Good heavens!" exclaimed Mr. Bons. "Good gracious heavens!"
It was not the omnibus in which the boy had driven first, nor yet thatin which he had returned. There were three horses--black, gray, andwhite, the gray being the finest. The driver, who turned round at themention of goodness and of heaven, was a sallow man with terrifying jawsand sunken eyes. Mr. Bons, on seeing him, gave a cry as if ofrecognition, and began to tremble violently.
The boy jumped in.
"Is it possible?" cried Mr. Bons. "Is the impossible possible?"
"Sir; come in, sir. It is such a fine omnibus. Oh, here is his name--Dansome one."
Mr. Bons sprang in too. A blast of wind immediately slammed the omnibusdoor, and the shock jerked down all the omnibus blinds, which were veryweak on their springs.
"Dan.... Show me. Good gracious heavens! we're moving."
"Hooray!" said the boy.
Mr. Bons became flustered. He had not intended to be kidnapped. He couldnot find the door-handle, nor push up the blinds. The omnibus was quitedark, and by the time he had struck a match, night had come on outsidealso. They were moving rapidly.
"A strange, a memorable adventure," he said, surveying the interior ofthe omnibus, which was large, roomy, and constructed with extremeregularity, every part exactly answering to every other part. Over thedoor (the handle of which was outside) was written, "Lasciate ognibaldanza voi che entrate"--at least, that was what was written, but Mr.Bons said that it was Lashy arty something, and that baldanza was amistake for speranza. His voice sounded as if he was in church.Meanwhile, the boy called to the cadaverous driver for two returntickets. They were handed in without a word. Mr. Bons covered his facewith his hand and again trembled. "Do you know who that is!" hewhispered, when the little window had shut upon them. "It is theimpossible."
"Well, I don't like him as much as Sir Thomas Browne, though I shouldn'tbe surprised if he had even more in him."
"More in him?" He stamped irritably. "By accident you have made thegreatest discovery of the century, and all you can say is that there ismore in this man. Do you remember those vellum books in my library,stamped with red lilies? This--sit still, I bring you stupendousnews!--_this is the man who wrote them_."
The boy sat quite still. "I wonder if we shall see Mrs. Gamp?" he asked,after a civil pause.
"Mrs. ----?"
"Mrs. Gamp and Mrs. Harris. I like Mrs. Harris. I came upon them quitesuddenly. Mrs. Gamp's bandboxes have moved over the rainbow so badly.All the bottoms have fallen out, and two of the pippins off her bedsteadtumbled into the stream."
"Out there sits the man who wrote my vellum books!" thundered Mr. Bons,"and you talk to me of Dickens and of Mrs. Gamp?"
"I know Mrs. Gamp so well," he apologized. "I could not help being gladto see her. I recognized her voice. She was telling Mrs. Harris aboutMrs. Prig."
"Did you spend the whole day in her elevating company?"
"Oh, no. I raced. I met a man who took me out beyond to a race-course.You run, and there are dolphins out at sea."
"Indeed. Do you remember the man's name?"
"Achilles. No; he was later. Tom Jones."
Mr. Bons sighed heavily. "Well, my lad, you have made a miserable messof it. Think of a cultured person with your opportunities! A culturedperson would have known all these characters and known what to have saidto each. He would not have wasted his time with a Mrs. Gamp or a TomJones. The creations of Homer, of Shakespeare, and of Him who drives usnow, would alone have contented him. He would not have raced. He wouldhave asked intelligent questions."
"But, Mr. Bons," said the boy humbly, "you will be a cultured person. Itold them so."
"True, true, and I beg you not to disgrace me when we arrive. Nogossiping. No running. Keep close to my side, and never speak to theseImmortals unless they speak to you. Yes, and give me the return tickets.You will be losing them."
The boy surrendered the tickets, but felt a little sore. After all, hehad found the way to this place. It was hard first to be disbelieved andthen to be lectured. Meanwhile, the rain had stopped, and moonlightcrept into the omnibus through the cracks in the blinds.
"But how is there to be a rainbow?" cried the boy.
"You distract me," snapped Mr. Bons. "I wish to meditate on beauty. Iwish to goodness I was with a reverent and sympathetic person."
The lad bit his lip. He made a hundred good resolutions. He wouldimitate Mr. Bons all the visit. He would not laugh, or run, or sing, ordo any of the vulgar things that must have disgusted his new friendslast time. He would be very careful to pronounce their names properly,and to remember who knew whom. Achilles did not know Tom Jones--atleast, so Mr. Bons said. The Duchess of Malfi was older than Mrs.Gamp--at least, so Mr. Bons said. He would be self-conscious, reticent,and prim. He would never say he liked any one. Yet when the Wind flew upat a chance touch of his head, all these good resolutions went to thewinds, for the omnibus had reached the summit of a moonlit hill, andthere was the chasm, and there, across it, stood the old precipices,dreaming, with their feet in the everlasting river. He exclaimed, "Themountain! Listen to the new tune in the water! Look at the camp fires inthe ravines," and Mr. Bons, after a hasty glance, retorted, "Water? Campfires? Ridiculous rubbish. Hold your tongue. There is nothing at all."
Yet, under his eyes, a rainbow formed, compounded not of sunlight andstorm, but of moonlight and the spray of the river. The three horses puttheir feet upon it. He thought it the finest rainbow he had seen, butdid not dare to say so, since Mr. Bons said that nothing was there. Heleant out--the window had opened--and sang the tune that rose from thesleeping waters.
"The prelude to Rhinegold?" said Mr. Bons suddenly. "Who taught youthese _leit motifs_?" He, too, looked out of the window. Then he behavedvery oddly. He gave a choking cry, and fell back on to the omnibusfloor. He writhed and kicked. His face was green.
"Does the bridge make you dizzy?" the boy asked.
"Dizzy!" gasped Mr. Bons. "I want to go back. Tell the driver."
But the driver shook his head.
"We are nearly there," said the boy, "They are asleep. Shall I call?They will be so pleased to see you, for I have prepared them."
Mr. Bons moaned. They moved over the lunar rainbow, which ever and everbroke away behind their wheels. How still the night was! Who would besentry at the Gate?
"I am coming," he shouted, again forgetting the hundred resolutions. "Iam returning--I, the boy."
"The boy is returning," cried a voice to other voices, who repeated,"The boy is returning."
"I am bringing Mr. Bons with me."
Silence.
"I should have said Mr. Bons is bringing me with him."
Profound silence.
"Who stands sentry?"
"Achilles."
And on the rocky causeway, close to the springing of the rainbow bridge,he saw a young man who carried a wonderful shield.
"Mr. Bons, it is Achilles, armed."
"I want to go back," said Mr. Bons.
The last fragment of the rainbow melted, the wheels sang upon the livingrock, the door of the omnibus burst open. Out leapt the boy--he couldnot resist--and sprang to meet the warrior, who, stooping suddenly,caught him on his shield.
"Achilles!" he cried, "let me get down, for I am ignorant and vulgar,and I must wait for that Mr. Bons of whom I told you yesterday."
But Achilles raised him aloft. He crouched on the wonderful shield, onheroes and burning cities, on vineyards graven in gold, on every dearpassion, every joy, on the entire image of the Mountain that he haddiscovered, encircled, like it, with an everlasting stream. "No, no," heprotested, "I am not worthy. It is Mr. Bons who must be up here."
But Mr. Bons was whimpering, and Achilles trumpeted and cried, "Standupright upon my shield!"
"Sir, I did not mean to stand! something made me stand. Sir, why do youdelay? Here is only the great Achilles, whom you knew."
Mr. Bons screamed, "I see no one. I see nothing. I want to go back."Then he cried to the driver, "Save me! Let me stop in your chariot. Ihave honoured you. I have quoted you. I have bound you in vellum. Takeme back to my world."
The driver replied, "I am the means and not the end. I am the food andnot the life. Stand by yourself, as that boy has stood. I cannot saveyou. For poetry is a spirit; and they that would worship it must worshipin spirit and in truth."
Mr. Bons--he could not resist--crawled out of the beautiful omnibus. Hisface appeared, gaping horribly. His hands followed, one gripping thestep, the other beating the air. Now his shoulders emerged, his chest,his stomach. With a shriek of "I see London," he fell--fell against thehard, moonlit rock, fell into it as if it were water, fell through it,vanished, and was seen by the boy no more.
"Where have you fallen to, Mr. Bons? Here is a procession arriving tohonour you with music and torches. Here come the men and women whosenames you know. The mountain is awake, the river is awake, over therace-course the sea is awaking those dolphins, and it is all for you.They want you----"
There was the touch of fresh leaves on his forehead. Some one hadcrowned him.
                 TELOS
       *       *       *       *       *
From the _Kingston Gazette, Surbiton Times,_ and _Paynes Park Observer_.
The body of Mr. Septimus Bons has been found in a shockingly mutilatedcondition in the vicinity of the Bermondsey gas-works. The deceased'spockets contained a sovereign-purse, a silver cigar-case, a bijoupronouncing dictionary, and a couple of omnibus tickets. The unfortunategentleman had apparently been hurled from a considerable height. Foulplay is suspected, and a thorough investigation is pending by theauthorities.
THE END



OTHER KINGDOM

I

"_Quem_, whom; _fugis_, are you avoiding; _ab demens_, you silly ass;_habitarunt di quoque_, gods too have lived in; _silvas_, the woods.' Goahead!"
I always brighten the classics--it is part of my system--and therefore Itranslated _demens_ by "silly ass." But Miss Beaumont need not have madea note of the translation, and Ford, who knows better, need not haveechoed after me. "Whom are you avoiding, you silly ass, gods too havelived in the woods."
"Ye--es," I replied, with scholarly hesitation. "Ye--es._Silvas_--woods, wooded spaces, the country generally. Yes. _Demens_, ofcourse, is _de--mens_. 'Ah, witless fellow! Gods, I say, even gods havedwelt in the woods ere now.'"
"But I thought gods always lived in the sky," said Mrs. Worters,interrupting our lesson for I think the third-and-twentieth time.
"Not always," answered Miss Beaumont. As she spoke she inserted "witlessfellow" as an alternative to "silly ass."
"I always thought they lived in the sky."
"Oh, no, Mrs. Worters," the girl repeated. "Not always." And finding herplace in the note-book she read as follows: "Gods. Where. Chiefdeities--Mount Olympus. Pan--most places, as name implies.Oreads--mountains. Sirens, Tritons, Nereids--water (salt). Naiads--water (fresh). Satyrs, Fauns, etc.--woods. Dryads--trees."
"Well, dear, you have learnt a lot. And will you now tell me what goodit has done you?"
"It has helped me--" faltered Miss Beaumont. She was very earnest overher classics. She wished she could have said what good they had doneher.
Ford came to her rescue, "Of course it's helped you. The classics arefull of tips. They teach you how to dodge things."
I begged my young friend not to dodge his Virgil lesson.
"But they do!" he cried. "Suppose that long-haired brute Apollo wants togive you a music lesson. Well, out you pop into the laurels. OrUniversal Nature comes along. You aren't feeling particularly keen onUniversal Nature so you turn into a reed."
"Is Jack mad?" asked Mrs. Worters.
But Miss Beaumont had caught the allusions--which were quite ingeniousI must admit. "And Croesus?" she inquired. "What was it one turned intoto get away from Croesus?"
I hastened to tidy up her mythology. "Midas, Miss Beaumont, not Croesus.And he turns you--you don't turn yourself: he turns you into gold."
"There's no dodging Midas," said Ford.
"Surely--" said Miss Beaumont. She had been learning Latin not quite afortnight, but she would have corrected the Regius Professor.
He began to tease her. "Oh, there's no dodging Midas! He just comes, hetouches you, and you pay him several thousand per cent, at once. You'regold--a young golden lady--if he touches you."
"I won't be touched!" she cried, relapsing into her habitual frivolity.
"Oh, but he'll touch you."
"He sha'n't!"
"He will."
"He sha'n't!"
"He will."
Miss Beaumont took up her Virgil and smacked Ford over the head with it.
"Evelyn! Evelyn!" said Mrs. Worters. "Now you are forgetting yourself.And you also forget my question. What good has Latin done you?"
"Mr. Ford--what good has Latin done you?"
"Mr. Inskip--what good has Latin done us?"
So I was let in for the classical controversy. The arguments for thestudy of Latin are perfectly sound, but they are difficult to remember,and the afternoon sun was hot, and I needed my tea. But I had to justifymy existence as a coach, so I took off my eye-glasses and breathed onthem and said, "My dear Ford, what a question!"
"It's all right for Jack," said Mrs. Worters. "Jack has to pass hisentrance examination. But what's the good of it for Evelyn? None atall."
"No, Mrs. Worters," I persisted, pointing my eye-glasses at her. "Icannot agree. Miss Beaumont is--in a sense--new to our civilization. Sheis entering it, and Latin is one of the subjects in her entranceexamination also. No one can grasp modern life without some knowledge ofits origins."
"But why should she grasp modern life?" said the tiresome woman.
"Well, there you are!" I retorted, and shut up my eye-glasses with asnap.
"Mr. Inskip, I am not there. Kindly tell me what's the good of it all.Oh, I've been through it myself: Jupiter, Venus, Juno, I know the lot ofthem. And many of the stories not at all proper."
"Classical education," I said drily, "is not entirely confined toclassical mythology. Though even the mythology has its value. Dreams ifyou like, but there is value in dreams."
"I too have dreams," said Mrs. Worters, "but I am not so foolish as tomention them afterwards."
Mercifully we were interrupted. A rich virile voice close behind ussaid, "Cherish your dreams!" We had been joined by our host, HarcourtWorters--Mrs. Worters' son, Miss Beaumont's fiance. Ford's guardian, myemployer: I must speak of him as Mr. Worters.
"Let us cherish our dreams!" he repeated. "All day I've been fighting,haggling, bargaining. And to come out on to this lawn and see you alllearning Latin, so happy, so passionless, so Arcadian----"
He did not finish the sentence, but sank into the chair next to MissBeaumont, and possessed himself of her hand. As he did so she sang: "Ahyo slly ss gds lve in wods!"
"What have we here?" said Mr. Worters with a slight frown.
With the other hand she pointed to me.
"Virgil--" I stammered. "Colloquial translation----"
"Oh, I see; a colloquial translation of poetry." Then his smilereturned. "Perhaps if gods live in woods, that is why woods are so dear.I have just bought Other Kingdom Copse!"
Loud exclamations of joy. Indeed, the beeches in that copse are as fineas any in Hertfordshire. Moreover, it, and the meadow by which it isapproached, have always made an ugly notch in the rounded contours ofthe Worters estate. So we were all very glad that Mr. Worters hadpurchased Other Kingdom. Only Ford kept silent, stroking his head wherethe Virgil had hit it, and smiling a little to himself as he did so.
"Judging from the price I paid, I should say there was a god in everytree. But price, this time was no object." He glanced at Miss Beaumont.
"You admire beeches, Evelyn, do you not?"
"I forget always which they are. Like this?"
She flung her arms up above her head, close together, so that she lookedlike a slender column. Then her body swayed and her delicate green dressquivered over it with the suggestion of countless leaves.
"My dear child!" exclaimed her lover.
"No: that is a silver birch," said Ford,
"Oh, of course. Like this, then." And she twitched up her skirts so thatfor a moment they spread out in great horizontal layers, like the layersof a beech.
We glanced at the house, but none of the servants were looking. So welaughed, and said she ought to go on the variety stage.
"Ah, this is the kind I like!" she cried, and practised the beech-treeagain.
"I thought so," said Mr. Worters. "I thought so. Other Kingdom Copse isyours."
"Mine----?" She had never had such a present in her life. She could notrealize it.
"The purchase will be drawn up in your name. You will sign the deed.Receive the wood, with my love. It is a second engagement ring."
"But is it--is it mine? Can I--do what I like there?"
"You can," said Mr. Worters, smiling.
She rushed at him and kissed him. She kissed Mrs. Worters. She wouldhave kissed myself and Ford if we had not extruded elbows. The joy ofpossession had turned her head.
"It's mine! I can walk there, work there, live there. A wood of my own!Mine for ever."
"Yours, at all events, for ninety-nine years."
"Ninety-nine years?" I regret to say there was a tinge of disappointmentin her voice.
"My dear child! Do you expect to live longer?"
"I suppose I can't," she replied, and flushed a little. "I don't know."
"Ninety-nine seems long enough to most people. I have got this house,and the very lawn you are standing on, on a lease of ninety-nine years.Yet I call them my own, and I think I am justified. Am I not?"
"Oh, yes."
"Ninety-nine years is practically for ever. Isn't it?"
"Oh, yes. It must be."
Ford possesses a most inflammatory note-book. Outside it is labelled"Private," inside it is headed "Practically a book." I saw him make anentry in it now, "Eternity: practically ninety-nine years."
Mr. Worters, as if speaking to himself, now observed: "My goodness! Mygoodness! How land has risen! Perfectly astounding."
I saw that he was in need of a Boswell, so I said: "Has it, indeed?"
"My dear Inskip. Guess what I could have got that wood for ten yearsago! But I refused. Guess why."
We could not guess why.
"Because the transaction would not have been straight." A most becomingblush spread over his face as he uttered the noble word. "Not straight.Straight legally. But not morally straight. We were to force the handsof the man who owned it. I refused. The others--decent fellows in theirway--told me I was squeamish. I said, 'Yes. Perhaps I am. My name isplain Harcourt Worters--not a well-known name if you go outside the Cityand my own country, but a name which, where it is known, carries, Iflatter myself, some weight. And I will not sign my name to this. Thatis all. Call me squeamish if you like. But I will not sign. It is just afad of mine. Let us call it a fad.'" He blushed again. Ford believesthat his guardian blushes all over--if you could strip him and make himtalk nobly he would look like a boiled lobster. There is a picture ofhim in this condition in the note-book.
"So the man who owned it then didn't own it now?" said Miss Beaumont,who had followed the narrative with some interest.
"Oh, no!" said Mr. Worters.
"Why no!" said Mrs. Worters absently, as she hunted in the grass for herknitting-needle. "Of course not. It belongs to the widow."
"Tea!" cried her son, springing vivaciously to his feet. "I see tea andI want it. Come, mother. Come along, Evelyn. I can tell you it's nojoke, a hard day in the battle of life. For life is practically abattle. To all intents and purposes a battle. Except for a few luckyfellows who can read books, and so avoid the realities. But I----"
His voice died away as he escorted the two ladies over the smooth lawnand up the stone steps to the terrace, on which the footman was placingtables and little chairs and a silver kettle-stand. More ladies came outof the house. We could just hear their shouts of excitement as they alsowere told of the purchase of Other Kingdom.
I like Ford. The boy has the makings of a scholar and--though for somereason he objects to the word--of a gentleman. It amused me now to seehis lip curl with the vague cynicism of youth. He cannot understand thefootman and the solid silver kettle-stand. They make him cross. For hehas dreams--not exactly spiritual dreams: Mr. Worters is the man forthose--but dreams of the tangible and the actual robust dreams, whichtake him, not to heaven, but to another earth. There are no footmen inthis other earth, and the kettle-stands, I suppose, will not be made ofsilver, and I know that everything is to be itself, and not practicallysomething else. But what this means, and, if it means anything, what thegood of it is, I am not prepared to say. For though I have just said"there is value in dreams," I only said it to silence old Mrs. Worters.
"Go ahead, man! We can't have tea till we've got through something."
He turned his chair away from the terrace, so that he could sit lookingat the meadows and at the stream that runs through the meadows, and atthe beech-trees of Other Kingdom that rise beyond the stream. Then, mostgravely and admirably, he began to construe the Eclogues of Virgil.


II

Other Kingdom Copse is just like any other beech copse, and I amtherefore spared the fatigue of describing it. And the stream in frontof it, like many other streams, is not crossed by a bridge in the rightplace, and you must either walk round a mile or else you must paddle.Miss Beaumont suggested that we should paddle.
Mr. Worters accepted the suggestion tumultuously. It only became evidentgradually that he was not going to adopt it.
"What fun! what fun! We will paddle to your kingdom. If only--if only itwasn't for the tea-things."
"But you can carry the tea-things on your back."
"Why, yes! so I can. Or the servants could,"
"Harcourt--no servants. This is my picnic, and my wood. I'm going tosettle everything. I didn't tell you: I've got all the food. I've beenin the village with Mr. Ford."
"In the village----?"
"Yes, We got biscuits and oranges and half a pound of tea. That's allyou'll have. He carried them up. And he'll carry them over the stream. Iwant you just to lend me some tea-things--not the best ones. I'll takecare of them. That's all."
"Dear creature...."
"Evelyn," said Mrs. Worters, "how much did you and Jack pay for thattea?"
"For the half-pound, tenpence."
Mrs. Worters received the announcement in gloomy silence.
"Mother!" cried Mr. Worters. "Why, I forgot! How could we go paddlingwith mother?"
"Oh, but, Mrs. Worters, we could carry you over."
"Thank you, dearest child. I am sure you could."
"Alas! alas! Evelyn. Mother is laughing at us. She would sooner die thanbe carried. And alas! there are my sisters, and Mrs. Osgood: she has acold, tiresome woman. No: we shall have to go round by the bridge."
"But some of us----" began Ford. His guardian cut him short with a quicklook.
So we went round--a procession of eight. Miss Beaumont led us. She wasfull of fun--at least so I thought at the time, but when I reviewed herspeeches afterwards I could not find in them anything amusing. It wasall this kind of thing: "Single file! Pretend you're in church and don'ttalk. Mr. Ford, turn out your toes. Harcourt--at the bridge throw to theNaiad a pinch of tea. She has a headache. She has had a headache fornineteen hundred years." All that she said was quite stupid. I cannotthink why I liked it at the time.
As we approached the copse she said, "Mr. Inskip, sing, and we'll singafter you: Ah yo silly ss gds lve in wods." I cleared my throat andgave out the abominable phrase, and we all chanted it as if it were alitany. There was something attractive about Miss Beaumont. I was notsurprised that Harcourt had picked her out of "Ireland" and had broughther home, without money, without connections, almost withoutantecedents, to be his bride. It was daring of him, but he knew himselfto be a daring fellow. She brought him nothing; but that he couldafford, he had so vast a surplus of spiritual and commercial goods. "Intime," I heard him tell his mother, "in time Evelyn will repay me athousandfold." Meanwhile there was something attractive about her. If itwere my place to like people, I could have liked her very much.
"Stop singing!" she cried. We had entered the wood. "Welcome, all ofyou." We bowed. Ford, who had not been laughing, bowed down to theground. "And now be seated. Mrs. Worters--will you sit there--againstthat tree with a green trunk? It will show up your beautiful dress."
"Very well, dear, I will," said Mrs. Worters.
"Anna--there. Mr. Inskip next to her. Then Ruth and Mrs. Osgood. Oh,Harcourt--do sit a little forward, so that you'll hide the house. Idon't want to see the house at all."
"I won't!" laughed her lover, "I want my back against a tree, too."
"Miss Beaumont," asked Ford, "where shall I sit?" He was standing atattention, like a soldier.
"Oh, look at all these Worters!" she cried, "and one little Ford in themiddle of them!" For she was at that state of civilization whichappreciates a pun.
"Shall I stand. Miss Beaumont? Shall I hide the house from you if Istand?"
"Sit down. Jack, you baby!" cried his guardian, breaking in withneedless asperity. "Sit down!"
"He may just as well stand if he will," said she. "Just pull back yoursoft hat, Mr. Ford. Like a halo. Now you hide even the smoke from thechimneys. And it makes you look beautiful."
"Evelyn! Evelyn! You are too hard on the boy. You'll tire him. He's oneof those bookworms. He's not strong. Let him sit down."
"Aren't you strong?" she asked.
"I am strong!" he cried. It is quite true. Ford has no right to bestrong, but he is. He never did his dumb-bells or played in his schoolfifteen. But the muscles came. He thinks they came while he was readingPindar.
"Then you may just as well stand, if you will."
"Evelyn! Evelyn! childish, selfish maiden! If poor Jack gets tired Iwill take his place. Why don't you want to see the house? Eh?"
Mrs. Worters and the Miss Worters moved uneasily. They saw that theirHarcourt was not quite pleased. Theirs not to question why. It was forEvelyn to remove his displeasure, and they glanced at her.
"Well, why don't you want to see your future home? I must say--though Ipractically planned the house myself--that it looks very well from here.I like the gables. Miss! Answer me!"
I felt for Miss Beaumont. A home-made gable is an awful thing, andHarcourt's mansion looked like a cottage with the dropsy. But what wouldshe say?
She said nothing.
"Well?"
It was as if he had never spoken. She was as merry, as smiling, aspretty as ever, and she said nothing. She had not realized that aquestion requires an answer.
For us the situation was intolerable. I had to save it by making atactful reference to the view, which, I said, reminded me a little ofthe country near Veii. It did not--indeed it could not, for I have neverbeen near Veii. But it is part of my system to make classical allusions.And at all events I saved the situation.
Miss Beaumont was serious and rational at once. She asked me the date ofVeii. I made a suitable answer.
"I do like the classics," she informed us. "They are so natural. Justwriting down things."
"Ye--es," said I. "But the classics have their poetry as well as theirprose. They're more than a record of facts."
"Just writing down things," said Miss Beaumont, and smiled as if thesilly definition pleased her.
Harcourt had recovered himself. "A very just criticism," said he. "It iswhat I always feel about the ancient world. It takes us but a verylittle way. It only writes things down."
"What do you mean?" asked Evelyn.
"I mean this--though it is presumptuous to speak in the presence of Mr.Inskip. This is what I mean. The classics are not everything. We owethem an enormous debt; I am the last to undervalue it; I, too, wentthrough them at school. They are full of elegance and beauty. But theyare not everything. They were written before men began to really feel."He coloured crimson. "Hence, the chilliness of classical art--its lackof--of a something. Whereas later things--Dante--a Madonna ofRaphael--some bars of Mendelssohn----" His voice tailed reverently away.We sat with our eyes on the ground, not liking to look at Miss Beaumont.It is a fairly open secret that she also lacks a something. She has notyet developed her soul.
The silence was broken by the still small voice of Mrs. Worters sayingthat she was faint with hunger.
The young hostess sprang up. She would let none of us help her: it washer party. She undid the basket and emptied out the biscuits and orangesfrom their bags, and boiled the kettle and poured out the tea, which washorrible. But we laughed and talked with the frivolity that suits theopen air, and even Mrs. Worters expectorated her flies with a smile.Over us all there stood the silent, chivalrous figure of Ford, drinkingtea carefully lest it should disturb his outline. His guardian, who is awag, chaffed him and tickled his ankles and calves.
"Well, this is nice!" said Miss Beaumont. "I am happy."
"Your wood, Evelyn!" said the ladies.
"Her wood for ever!" cried Mr. Worters. "It is an unsatisfactoryarrangement, a ninety-nine years' lease. There is no feeling ofpermanency. I reopened negotiations. I have bought her the wood forever--all right, dear, all right: don't make a fuss."
"But I must!" she cried. "For everything's perfect! Every one sokind--and I didn't know most of you a year ago. Oh, it is sowonderful--and now a wood--a wood of my own--a wood for ever. All of youcoming to tea with me here! Dear Harcourt--dear people--and just wherethe house would come and spoil things, there is Mr. Ford!"
"Ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Worters, and slipped his hand up round the boy'sankle. What happened I do not know, but Ford collapsed on to the groundwith a sharp cry. To an outsider it might have sounded like a cry ofanger or pain. We, who knew better, laughed uproariously.
"Down he goes! Down he goes!" And they struggled playfully, kicking upthe mould and the dry leaves.
"Don't hurt my wood!" cried Miss Beaumont.
Ford gave another sharp cry. Mr. Worters withdrew his hand. "Victory!"he exclaimed. "Evelyn! behold the family seat!" But Miss Beaumont, inher butterfly fashion, had left us, and was strolling away into herwood.
We packed up the tea-things and then split into groups. Ford went withthe ladies. Mr. Worters did me the honour to stop by me.
"Well!" he said, in accordance with his usual formula, "and how go theclassics?"
"Fairly well."
"Does Miss Beaumont show any ability?"
"I should say that she does. At all events she has enthusiasm."
"You do not think it is the enthusiasm of a child? I will be frank withyou, Mr. Inskip. In many ways Miss Beaumont's practically a child. Shehas everything to learn: she acknowledges as much herself. Her new lifeis so different--so strange. Our habits--our thoughts--she has to beinitiated into them all."
I saw what he was driving at, but I am not a fool, and I replied: "Andhow can she be initiated better than through the classics?"
"Exactly, exactly," said Mr. Worters. In the distance we heard hervoice. She was counting the beech-trees. "The only question is--thisLatin and Greek--what will she do with it? Can she make anything of it?Can she--well, it's not as if she will ever have to teach it toothers."
"That is true." And my features might have been observed to becomeundecided.
"Whether, since she knows so little--I grant you she has enthusiasm. Butought one not to divert her enthusiasm--say to English literature? Shescarcely knows her Tennyson at all. Last night in the conservatory Iread her that wonderful scene between Arthur and Guinevere. Greek andLatin are all very well, but I sometimes feel we ought to begin at thebeginning."
"You feel," said I, "that for Miss Beaumont the classics are somethingof a luxury."
"A luxury. That is the exact word, Mr. Inskip. A luxury. A whim. It isall very well for Jack Ford. And here we come to another point. Surelyshe keeps Jack back? Her knowledge must be elementary."
"Well, her knowledge _is_ elementary: and I must say that it'sdifficult to teach them together. Jack has read a good deal, one way andanother, whereas Miss Beaumont, though diligent and enthusiastic----"
"So I have been feeling. The arrangement is scarcely fair on Jack?"
"Well, I must admit----"
"Quite so. I ought never to have suggested it. It must come to an end.Of course, Mr. Inskip, it shall make no difference to you, thiswithdrawal of a pupil."
"The lessons shall cease at once, Mr. Worters."
Here she came up to us. "Harcourt, there are seventy-eight trees. I havehad such a count."
He smiled down at her. Let me remember to say that he is tall andhandsome, with a strong chin and liquid brown eyes, and a high foreheadand hair not at all gray. Few things are more striking than a photographof Mr. Harcourt Worters.
"Seventy-eight trees?"
"Seventy-eight."
"Are you pleased?"
"Oh, Harcourt----!"
I began to pack up the tea-things. They both saw and heard me. It wastheir own fault if they did not go further.
"I'm looking forward to the bridge," said he. "A rustic bridge at thebottom, and then, perhaps, an asphalt path from the house over themeadow, so that in all weathers we can walk here dry-shod. The boys comeinto the wood--look at all these initials--and I thought of putting asimple fence, to prevent any one but ourselves----"
"Harcourt!"
"A simple fence," he continued, "just like what I have put round mygarden and the fields. Then at the other side of the copse, away fromthe house, I would put a gate, and have keys--two keys, I think--one forme and one for you--not more; and I would bring the asphalt path----"
"But Harcourt-----"
"But Evelyn!"
"I--I--I----"
"You--you--you----?"
"I--I don't want an asphalt path."
"No? Perhaps you are right. Cinders perhaps. Yes. Or even gravel."
"But Harcourt--I don't want a path at all. I--I--can't afford a path."
He gave a roar of triumphant laughter. "Dearest! As if you were going tobe bothered? The path's part of my present."
"The wood is your present," said Miss Beaumont. "Do you know--I don'tcare for the path. I'd rather always come as we came to-day. And I don'twant a bridge. No--nor a fence either. I don't mind the boys and theirinitials. They and the girls have always come up to Other Kingdom andcut their names together in the bark. It's called the Fourth Time ofAsking. I don't want it to stop."
"Ugh!" He pointed to a large heart transfixed by an arrow. "Ugh! Ugh!" Isuspect that he was gaining time.
"They cut their names and go away, and when the first child is born theycome again and deepen the cuts. So for each child. That's how you know:the initials that go right through to the wood are the fathers andmothers of large families, and the scratches in the bark that soon closeup are boys and girls who were never married at all."
"You wonderful person! I've lived here all my life and never heard aword of this. Fancy folk-lore in Hertfordshire! I must tell theArchdeacon: he will be delighted----"
"And Harcourt, I don't want this to stop."
"My dear girl, the villagers will find other trees! There's nothingparticular in Other Kingdom."
"But----"
"Other Kingdom shall be for us. You and I alone. Our initials only." Hisvoice sank to a whisper.
"I don't want it fenced in." Her face was turned to me; I saw that itwas puzzled and frightened. "I hate fences. And bridges. And all paths.It is my wood. Please: you gave me the wood."
"Why, yes!" he replied, soothing her. But I could see that he was angry."Of course. But aha! Evelyn, the meadow's mine; I have a right to fencethere--between my domain and yours!"
"Oh, fence me out if you like! Fence me out as much as you like! Butnever in. Oh Harcourt, never in. I must be on the outside, I must bewhere any one can reach me. Year by year--while the initials deepen--theonly thing worth feeling--and at last they close up--but one has feltthem."
"Our initials!" he murmured, seizing upon the one word which he hadunderstood and which was useful to him. "Let us carve our initials now.You and I--a heart if you like it, and an arrow and everything.H.W.--E.B."
"H.W.," she repeated, "and E.B."
He took out his penknife and drew her away in search of an unsulliedtree. "E.B., Eternal Blessing. Mine! Mine! My haven from the world! Mytemple of purity. Oh the spiritual exaltation--you cannot understand it,but you will! Oh, the seclusion of Paradise. Year after year alonetogether, all in all to each other--year after year, soul to soul, E.B.,Everlasting Bliss!"
He stretched out his hand to cut the initials. As he did so she seemedto awake from a dream. "Harcourt!" she cried, "Harcourt! What's that?What's that red stuff on your finger and thumb?"


III

Oh, my goodness! Oh, all ye goddesses and gods! Here's a mess. Mr.Worters has been reading Ford's inflammatory note-book.
"This my own fault," said Ford. "I should have labelled it 'PracticallyPrivate.' How could he know he was not meant to look inside?"
I spoke out severely, as an _employ_ should. "My dear boy, none ofthat. The label came unstuck. That was why Mr. Worters opened the book.He never suspected it was private. See--the label's off."
"Scratched off," Ford retorted grimly, and glanced at his ankle.
I affect not to understand. "The point is this. Mr. Worters is thinkingthe matter over for four-and-twenty hours. If you take my advice youwill apologize before that time elapses."
"And if I don't?"
"You know your own affairs of course. But don't forget that you areyoung and practically ignorant of life, and that you have scarcely anymoney of your own. As far as I can see, your career practically dependson the favour of Mr. Worters. You have laughed at him. He does not likebeing laughed at. It seems to me that your course is obvious."
"Apology?"
"Complete."
"And if I don't?"
"Departure."
He sat down on the stone steps and rested his head on his knees. On thelawn below us was Miss Beaumont, draggling about with some croquetballs. Her lover was out in the meadow, superintending the course of theasphalt path. For the path is to be made, and so is the bridge, and thefence is to be built round Other Kingdom after all. In time MissBeaumont saw how unreasonable were her objections. Of her own accord,one evening in the drawing-room, she gave her Harcourt permission to dowhat he liked. "That wood looks nearer," said Ford.
"The inside fences have gone: that brings it nearer. But my dearboy--you must settle what you're going to do."
"How much has he read?"
"Naturally he only opened the book. From what you showed me of it, oneglance would be enough."
"Did he open at the poems?"
"Poems?"
"Did he speak of the poems?"
"No. Were they about him?"
"They were not about him."
"Then it wouldn't matter if he saw them."
"It is sometimes a compliment to be mentioned," said Ford, looking up atme. The remark had a stinging fragrance about it--such a fragrance asclings to the mouth after admirable wine. It did not taste like theremark of a boy. I was sorry that my pupil was likely to wreck hiscareer; and I told him again that he had better apologize.
"I won't speak of Mr. Worters' claim for an apology. That's an aspecton which I prefer not to touch. The point is, if you don't apologize,you go--where?"
"To an aunt at Peckham."
I pointed to the pleasant, comfortable land-scape, full of cows andcarriage-horses out at grass, and civil retainers. In the midst of itstood Mr. Worters, radiating energy and wealth, like a terrestrial sun."My dear Ford--don't be heroic! Apologize."
Unfortunately I raised my voice a little, and Miss Beaumont heard me,down on the lawn.
"Apologize?" she cried. "What about?" And as she was not interested inthe game, she came up the steps towards us, trailing her croquet malletbehind her. Her walk was rather listless. She was toning down at last.
"Come indoors!" I whispered. "We must get out of this."
"Not a bit of it!" said Ford.
"What is it?" she asked, standing beside him on the step.
He swallowed something as he looked up at her. Suddenly I understood. Iknew the nature and the subject of his poems. I was not so sure now thathe had better apologize. The sooner he was kicked out of the place thebetter.
In spite of my remonstrances, he told her about the book, and her firstremark was: "Oh, do let me see it!" She had no "proper feeling" of anykind. Then she said: "But why do you both look so sad?"
"We are awaiting Mr. Worters' decision," said I.
"Mr. Inskip! What nonsense! Do you suppose Harcourt'll be angry?"
"Of course he is angry, and rightly so."
"But why?"
"Ford has laughed at him."
"But what's that!" And for the first time there was anger in her voice."Do you mean to say he'll punish some one who laughs at him? Why, forwhat else--for whatever reason are we all here? Not to laugh at eachother! I laugh at people all day. At Mr. Ford. At you. And so doesHarcourt. Oh, you've misjudged him! He won't--he couldn't be angry withpeople who laughed."
"Mine is not nice laughter," said Ford. "He could not well forgive me."
"You're a silly boy." She sneered at him. "You don't know Harcourt. Sogenerous in every way. Why, he'd be as furious as I should be if youapologized. Mr. Inskip, isn't that so?"
"He has every right to an apology, I think."
"Right? What's a right? You use too many new words.'Rights'--'apologies'--'society'--'position'--I don't follow it. Whatare we all here for, anyhow?"
Her discourse was full of trembling lights and shadows--frivolous onemoment, the next moment asking why Humanity is here. I did not take theMoral Science Tripos, so I could not tell her.
"One thing I know--and that is that Harcourt isn't as stupid as you two.He soars above conventions. He doesn't care about 'rights' and'apologies.' He knows that all laughter is nice, and that the other nicethings are money and the soul and so on."
The soul and so on! I wonder that Harcourt out in the meadows did nothave an apoplectic fit.
"Why, what a poor business your life would be," she continued, "if youall kept taking offence and apologizing! Forty million people in Englandand all of them touchy! How one would laugh if it was true! Justimagine!" And she did laugh. "Look at Harcourt though. He knows better.He isn't petty like that. Mr. Ford! He isn't petty like that. Why, what's wrong with your eyes?"
He rested his head on his knees again, and we could see his eyes nolonger. In dispassionate tones she informed me that she thought he wascrying. Then she tapped him on the hair with her mallet and said:"Cry-baby! Cry-cry-baby! Crying about nothing!" and ran laughing downthe steps. "All right!" she shouted from the lawn. "Tell the cry-baby tostop. I'm going to speak to Harcourt!"
We watched her go in silence. Ford had scarcely been crying. His eyeshad only become large and angry. He used such swear-words as he knew,and then got up abruptly, and went into the house. I think he could notbear to see her disillusioned. I had no such tenderness, and it was withconsiderable interest that I watched Miss Beaumont approach her lord.
She walked confidently across the meadow, bowing to the workmen as theyraised their hats. Her languor had passed, and with it her suggestion of"tone." She was the same crude, unsophisticated person that Harcourt hadpicked out of Ireland--beautiful and ludicrous in the extreme, and:--ifyou go in for pathos--extremely pathetic.
I saw them meet, and soon she was hanging on his arm. The motion of hishand explained to her the construction of bridges. Twice she interruptedhim: he had to explain everything again. Then she got in her word, andwhat followed was a good deal better than a play. Their two littlefigures parted and met and parted again, she gesticulating, he mostpompous and calm. She pleaded, she argued and--if satire can carry halfa mile--she tried to be satirical. To enforce one of her childish pointsshe made two steps back. Splash! She was floundering in the littlestream.
That was the _dnouement_ of the comedy. Harcourt rescued her, while theworkmen crowded round in an agitated chorus. She was wet quite as far asher knees, and muddy over her ankles. In this state she was conducedtowards me, and in time I began to hear words; "Influenza--a slightimmersion--clothes are of no consequence beside health--pray, dearest,don't worry--yes, it must have been a shock--bed! bed! I insist on bed!Promise? Good girl. Up the steps to bed then."
They parted on the lawn, and she came obediently up the steps. Her facewas full of terror and bewilderment.
"So you've had a wetting, Miss Beaumont!"
"Wetting? Oh, yes. But, Mr. Inskip--I don't understand: I've failed."
I expressed surprise.
"Mr. Ford is to go--at once. I've failed."
"I'm sorry."
"I've failed with Harcourt. He's offended. He won't laugh. He won't letme do what I want. Latin and Greek began it: I wanted to know about godsand heroes and he wouldn't let me: then I wanted no fence round OtherKingdom and no bridge and no path--and look! Now I ask that Mr. Ford,who has done nothing, sha'n't be punished for it--and he is to go awayfor ever."
"Impertinence is not 'nothing,' Miss Beaumont." For I must keep in withHarcourt.
"Impertinence is nothing!" she cried. "It doesn't exist. It's a sham,like 'claims' and 'position' and 'rights.' It's part of the greatdream."
"What 'great dream'?" I asked, trying not to smile.
"Tell Mr. Ford--here comes Harcourt; I must go to bed. Give my love toMr. Ford, and tell him 'to guess.' I shall never see him again, and Iwon't stand it. Tell him to guess. I am sorry I called him a cry-baby.He was not crying like a baby. He was crying like a grown-up person, andnow I have grown up too."
I judged it right to repeat this conversation to my employer.


IV

The bridge is built, the fence finished, and Other Kingdom lies tetheredby a ribbon of asphalt to our front door. The seventy-eight treestherein certainly seem nearer, and during the windy nights that followedFord's departure we could hear their branches sighing, and would find inthe morning that beech-leaves had been blown right up against the house.Miss Beaumont made no attempt to go out, much to the relief of theladies, for Harcourt had given the word that she was not to go outunattended, and the boisterous weather deranged their petticoats. Sheremained indoors, neither reading nor laughing, and dressing no longerin green, but in brown.
Not noticing her presence, Mr. Worters looked in one day and said with asigh of relief: "That's all right. The circle's completed."
"Is it indeed!" she replied.
"You there, you quiet little mouse? I only meant that our lords, theBritish workmen, have at last condescended to complete their labours,and have rounded us off from the world. I--in the end I was a naughty,domineering tyrant, and disobeyed you. I didn't have the gate out at thefurther side of the copse. Will you forgive me?"
"Anything, Harcourt, that pleases you, is certain to please me."
The ladies smiled at each other, and Mr. Worters said: "That's right,and as soon as the wind goes down we'll all progress together to yourwood; and take possession of it formally, for it didn't really countthat last time."
"No, it didn't really count that last time," Miss Beaumont echoed.
"Evelyn says this wind never will go down," remarked Mrs. Worters. "Idon't know how she knows."
"It will never go down, as long as I am in the house."
"Really?" he said gaily. "Then come out now, and send it down with me."
They took a few turns up and down the terrace. The wind lulled for amoment, but blew fiercer than ever during lunch. As we ate, it roaredand whistled down the chimney at us, and the trees of Other Kingdomfrothed like the sea. Leaves and twigs flew from them, and a bough, agood-sized bough, was blown on to the smooth asphalt path, and actuallyswitchbacked over the bridge, up the meadow, and across our very lawn.(I venture to say "our," as I am now staying on as Harcourt'ssecretary.) Only the stone steps prevented it from reaching the terraceand perhaps breaking the dining-room window. Miss Beaumont sprang upand, napkin in hand, ran out and touched it.
"Oh, Evelyn----" the ladies cried.
"Let her go," said Mr. Worters tolerantly. "It certainly is a remarkableincident, remarkable. We must remember to tell the Archdeacon about it."
"Harcourt," she cried, with the first hint of returning colour in hercheeks, "mightn't we go up to the copse after lunch, you and I?"
Mr. Worters considered.
"Of course, not if you don't think best."
"Inskip, what's your opinion?"
I saw what his own was, and cried, "Oh, let's go!" though I detest thewind as much as any one.
"Very well. Mother, Anna, Ruth, Mrs. Osgood--we'll all go."
And go we did, a lugubrious procession; but the gods were good to us foronce, for as soon as we were started, the tempest dropped, and thereensued an extraordinary calm. After all, Miss Beaumont was something ofa weather prophet. Her spirits improved every minute. She tripped infront of us along the asphalt path, and ever and anon turned round tosay to her lover some gracious or alluring thing. I admired her for it.I admire people who know on which side their bread's buttered.
"Evelyn, come here!"
"Come here yourself."
"Give me a kiss."
"Come and take it then."
He ran after her, and she ran away, while all our party laughedmelodiously.
"Oh, I am so happy!" she cried. "I think I've everything I want in allthe world. Oh dear, those last few days indoors! But oh, I am so happynow!" She had changed her brown dress for the old flowing green one, andshe began to do her skirt dance in the open meadow, lit by sudden gleamsof the sunshine. It was really a beautiful sight, and Mr. Worters didnot correct her, glad perhaps that she should recover her spirits, evenif she lost her tone. Her feet scarcely moved, but her body so swayedand her dress spread so gloriously around her, that we were transportedwith joy. She danced to the song of a bird that sang passionately inOther Kingdom, and the river held back its waves to watch her (one mighthave supposed), and the winds lay spell-bound in their cavern, and thegreat clouds spell-bound in the sky. She danced away from our societyand our life, back, back through the centuries till houses and fencesfell and the earth lay wild to the sun. Her garment was as foliage uponher, the strength of her limbs as boughs, her throat the smooth upperbranch that salutes the morning or glistens to the rain. Leaves move,leaves hide it as hers was hidden by the motion of her hair. Leaves moveagain and it is ours, as her throat was ours again when, parting thetangle, she faced us crying, "Oh!" crying, "Oh Harcourt! I never was sohappy. I have all that there is in the world."
But he, entrammelled in love's ecstasy, forgetting certain Madonnas ofRaphael, forgetting, I fancy, his soul, sprang to inarm her with,"Evelyn! Eternal Bliss! Mine to eternity! Mine!" and she sprang away.Music was added and she sang, "Oh Ford! oh Ford, among all theseWorters, I am coming through you to my Kingdom. Oh Ford, my lover whileI was a woman, I will never forget you, never, as long as I havebranches to shade you from the sun," and, singing, crossed the stream.
Why he followed her so passionately, I do not know. It was play, she wasin his own domain which a fence surrounds, and she could not possiblyescape him. But he dashed round by the bridge as if all their love wasat stake, and pursued her with fierceness up the hill. She ran well, butthe end was a foregone conclusion, and we only speculated whether hewould catch her outside or inside the copse. He gained on her inch byinch; now they were in the shadow of the trees; he had practicallygrasped her, he had missed; she had disappeared into the treesthemselves, he following.
"Harcourt is in high spirits," said Mrs. Osgood, Anna, and Ruth.
"Evelyn!" we heard him shouting within.
We proceeded up the asphalt path.
"Evelyn! Evelyn!"
"He's not caught her yet, evidently."
"Where are you, Evelyn?"
"Miss Beaumont must have hidden herself rather cleverly."
"Look here," cried Harcourt, emerging, "have you seen Evelyn?"
"Oh, no, she's certainly inside."
"So I thought."
"Evelyn must be dodging round one of the trunks. You go this way, Ithat. We'll soon find her."
We searched, gaily at first, and always with a feeling that MissBeaumont was close by, that the delicate limbs were just behind thisbole, the hair and the drapery quivering among those leaves. She wasbeside us, above us; here was her footstep on the purple-brownearth--her bosom, her neck--she was everywhere and nowhere. Gaietyturned to irritation, irritation to anger and fear. Miss Beaumont wasapparently lost. "Evelyn! Evelyn!" we continued to cry. "Oh, really, itis beyond a joke."
Then the wind arose, the more violent for its lull, and we were driveninto the house by a terrific storm. We said, "At all events she willcome back now." But she did not come, and the rain hissed and rose upfrom the dry meadows like incense smoke, and smote the quivering leavesto applause. Then it lightened. Ladies screamed, and we saw OtherKingdom as one who claps the handsy and heard it as one who roars withlaughter in the thunder. Not even the Archdeacon can remember such astorm. All Harcourt's seedlings were ruined, and the tiles flew off hisgables right and left. He came to me presently with a white, drawn face,saying: "Inskip, can I trust you?"
"You can, indeed."
"I have long suspected it; she has eloped with Ford."
"But how----" I gasped.
"The carriage is ready--we'll talk as we drive." Then, against the rainhe shouted: "No gate in the fence, I know, but what about a ladder?While I blunder, she's over the fence, and he----"
"But you were so close. There was not the time."
"There is time for anything," he said venomously, "where a treacherouswoman is concerned. I found her no better than a savage, I trained her,I educated her. But I'll break them both. I can do that; I'll break themsoul and body."
No one can break Ford now. The task is impossible. But I trembled forMiss Beaumont.
We missed the train. Young couples had gone by it, several youngcouples, and we heard of more young couples in London, as if all theworld were mocking Harcourt's solitude. In desperation we sought thesqualid suburb that is now Ford's home. We swept past the dirty maid andthe terrified aunt, swept upstairs, to catch him if we could red-handed.He was seated at the table, reading the _Oedipus Coloneus_ of Sophocles.
"That won't take in me!" shouted Harcourt. "You've got Miss Beaumontwith you, and I know it."
"No such luck," said Ford.
He stammered with rage. "Inskip--you hear that? 'No such luck'! Quotethe evidence against him. I can't speak."
So I quoted her song. "'Oh Ford! Oh Ford, among all these Worters, I amcoming through you to my Kingdom! Oh Ford, my lover while I was a woman,I will never forget you, never, as long as I have branches to shade youfrom the sun.' Soon after that, we lost her."
"And--and on another occasion she sent a message of similar effect.Inskip, bear witness. He was to 'guess' something."
"I have guessed it," said Ford.
"So you practically----"
"Oh, no, Mr. Worters, you mistake me. I have not practically guessed. Ihave guessed. I could tell you if I chose, but it would be no good, forshe has not practically escaped you. She has escaped you absolutely, forever and ever, as long as there are branches to shade men from the sun."



THE CURATE'S FRIEND

It is uncertain how the Faun came to be in Wiltshire. Perhaps he cameover with the Roman legionaries to live with his friends in camp,talking to them of Lucretius, or Garganus or of the slopes of Etna; theyin the joy of their recall forgot to take him on board, and he wept inexile; but at last he found that our hills also understood his sorrows,and rejoiced when he was happy. Or, perhaps he came to be there becausehe had been there always. There is nothing particularly classical abouta faun: it is only that the Greeks and Italians have ever had thesharpest eyes. You will find him in the "Tempest" and the "Benedicite;"and any country which has beech clumps and sloping grass and very clearstreams may reasonably produce him.
How I came to see him is a more difficult question. For to see him thereis required a certain quality, for which truthfulness is too cold a nameand animal spirits too coarse a one, and he alone knows how this qualitycame to be in me. No man has the right to call himself a fool, but I maysay that I then presented the perfect semblance of one. I was facetiouswithout humour and serious without conviction. Every Sunday I wouldspeak to my rural parishioners about the other world in the tone of onewho has been behind the scenes, or I would explain to them the errors ofthe Pelagians, or I would warn them against hurrying from onedissipation to another. Every Tuesday I gave what I called "straighttalks to my lads"--talks which led straight past anything awkward. Andevery Thursday I addressed the Mothers' Union on the duties of wives orwidows, and gave them practical hints on the management of a family often.
I took myself in, and for a time I certainly took in Emily. I have neverknown a girl attend so carefully to my sermons, or laugh so heartily atmy jokes. It is no wonder that I became engaged. She has made anexcellent wife, freely correcting her husband's absurdities, butallowing no one else to breathe a word against them; able to talk aboutthe sub-conscious self in the drawing-room, and yet have an ear for thechildren crying in the nursery, or the plates breaking in the scullery.An excellent wife--better than I ever imagined. But she has not marriedme.
Had we stopped indoors that afternoon nothing thing would have happened.It was all owing to Emily's mother, who insisted on our tea-ing out.Opposite the village, across the stream, was a small chalk down, crownedby a beech copse, and a few Roman earth-works. (I lectured very vividlyon those earthworks: they have since proved to be Saxon). Hither did Idrag up a tea-basket and a heavy rug for Emily's mother, while Emily anda little friend went on in front. The little friend--who has played allthrough a much less important part than he supposes--was a pleasantyouth, full of intelligence and poetry, especially of what he called thepoetry of earth. He longed to wrest earth's secret from her, and I haveseen him press his face passionately into the grass, even when he hasbelieved himself to be alone. Emily was at that time full of vagueaspirations, and, though I should have preferred them all to centre inme, yet it seemed unreasonable to deny her such other opportunities forself-culture as the neighbourhood provided.
It was then my habit, on reaching the top of any eminence, to exclaimfacetiously "And who will stand on either hand and keep the bridge withme?" at the same moment violently agitating my arms or casting mywide-awake eyes at an imaginary foe. Emily and the friend received mysally as usual, nor could I detect any insincerity in their mirth. Yet Iwas convinced that some one was present who did not think I had beenfunny, and any public speaker will understand my growing uneasiness.
I was somewhat cheered by Emily's mother, who puffed up exclaiming,"Kind Harry, to carry the things! What should we do without you, evennow! Oh, what a view! Can you see the dear Cathedral? No. Too hazy. Now_I'm_ going to sit _right_ on the rug." She smiled mysteriously. "Thedowns in September, you know."
We gave some perfunctory admiration to the landscape, which is indeedonly beautiful to those who admire land, and to them perhaps the mostbeautiful in England. For here is the body of the great chalk spider whostraddles over our island--whose legs are the south downs and the northdowns and the Chilterns, and the tips of whose toes poke out at Cromerand Dover. He is a clean creature, who grows as few trees as he can, andthose few in tidy clumps, and he loves to be tickled by quickly flowingstreams. He is pimpled all over with earth-works, for from the beginningof time men have fought for the privilege of standing on him, and theoldest of our temples is built upon his back.
But in those days I liked my country snug and pretty, full ofgentlemen's residences and shady bowers and people who touch their hats.The great sombre expanses on which one may walk for miles and hardlyshift a landmark or meet a genteel person were still intolerable to me.I turned away as soon as propriety allowed and said "And may I nowprepare the cup that cheers?"
Emily's mother replied: "Kind man, to help me. I always do say that teaout is worth the extra effort. I wish we led simpler lives." We agreedwith her. I spread out the food. "Won't the kettle stand? Oh, but _make_it stand." I did so. There was a little cry, faint but distinct, as ofsomething in pain.
"How silent it all is up here!" said Emily.
I dropped a lighted match on the grass, and again I heard the littlecry.
"What is that?" I asked.
"I only said it was so silent," said Emily.
"Silent, indeed," echoed the little friend.
Silent! the place was full of noises. If the match had fallen in adrawing-room it could not have been worse, and the loudest noise camefrom beside Emily herself. I had exactly the sensation of going to agreat party, of waiting to be announced in the echoing hall, where Icould hear the voices of the guests, but could not yet see their faces.It is a nervous moment for a self-conscious man, especially if all thevoices should be strange to him, and he has never met his host.
"My dear Harry!" said the elder lady, "never mind about that match.That'll smoulder away and harm no one. Tea-ee-ee! I always say--and youwill find Emily the same--that as the magic hour of five approaches, nomatter how good a lunch, one begins to feel a sort of----"
Now the Faun is of the kind who capers upon the Neo-Attic reliefs, andif you do not notice his ears or see his tail, you take him for a manand are horrified.
"Bathing!" I cried wildly. "Such a thing for our village lads, but Iquite agree--more supervision--I blame myself. Go away, bad boy, goaway!"
"What will he think of next!" said Emily, while the creature beside herstood up and beckoned to me. I advanced struggling and gesticulatingwith tiny steps and horrified cries, exorcising the apparition with myhat. Not otherwise had I advanced the day before, when Emily's niecesshowed me their guinea pigs. And by no less hearty laughter was Igreeted now. Until the strange fingers closed upon me, I still thoughtthat here was one of my parishioners and did not cease to exclaim, "Letme go, naughty boy, let go!" And Emily's mother, believing herself tohave detected the joke, replied, "Well I must confess they are naughtyboys and reach one even on the rug: the downs in September, as I saidbefore."
Here I caught sight of the tail, uttered a wild shriek and fled into thebeech copse behind.
"Harry would have been a born actor," said Emily's mother as I leftthem.
I realized that a great crisis in my life was approaching, and that if Ifailed in it I might permanently lose my self-esteem. Already in thewood I was troubled by a multitude of voices--the voices of the hillbeneath me, of the trees over my head, of the very insects in the barkof the tree. I could even hear the stream licking little pieces out ofthe meadows, and the meadows dreamily protesting. Above the din--whichis no louder than the flight of a bee--rose the Faun's voice saying,"Dear priest, be placid, be placid: why are you frightened?"
"I am not frightened," said I--and indeed I was not. "But I am grieved:you have disgraced me in the presence of ladies."
"No one else has seen me," he said, smiling idly. "The women have tightboots and the man has long hair. Those kinds never see. For years I haveonly spoken to children, and they lose sight of me as soon as they growup. But you will not be able to lose sight of me, and until you die youwill be my friend. Now I begin to make you happy: lie upon your back orrun races, or climb trees, or shall I get you blackberries, orharebells, or wives----"
In a terrible voice I said to him, "Get thee behind me!" He got behindme. "Once for all," I continued, "let me tell you that it is vain totempt one whose happiness consists in giving happiness to others."
"I cannot understand you," he said ruefully. "What is to tempt?"
"Poor woodland creature!" said I, turning round. "How could youunderstand? It was idle of me to chide you. It is not in your littlenature to comprehend a life of self-denial. Ah! if only I could reachyou!"
"You have reached him," said the hill.
"If only I could touch you!"
"You have touched him," said the hill.
"But I will never leave you," burst out the Faun. "I will sweep out yourshrine for you, I will accompany you to the meetings of matrons. I willenrich you at the bazaars."
I shook my head. "For these things I care not at all. And indeed I wasminded to reject your offer of service altogether. There I was wrong.You shall help me--you shall help me to make others happy."
"Dear priest, what a curious life! People whom I have neverseen--people who cannot see me--why should I make them happy?"
"My poor lad--perhaps in time you will learn why. Now begone: commence.On this very hill sits a young lady for whom I have a high regard.Commence with her. Aha! your face falls. I thought as much. You _cannot_do anything. Here is the conclusion of the whole matter!"
"I can make her happy," he replied, "if you order me; and when I havedone so, perhaps you will trust me more."
Emily's mother had started home, but Emily and the little friend stillsat beside the tea-things--she in her white piqu dress and biscuitstraw, he in his rough but well-cut summer suit. The great pagan figureof the Faun towered insolently above them.
The friend was saying, "And have you never felt the appalling lonelinessof a crowd?"
"All that," replied Emily, "have I felt, and very much more--"
Then the Faun laid his hands upon them. They, who had only intended alittle cultured flirtation, resisted him as long as they could, but weregradually urged into each other's arms, and embraced with passion.
"Miscreant!" I shouted, bursting from the wood. "You have betrayed me."
"I know it: I care not," cried the little friend. "Stand aside. You arein the presence of that which you do not understand. In the greatsolitude we have found ourselves at last."
"Remove your accursed hands!" I shrieked to the Faun.
He obeyed and the little friend continued more calmly: "It is idle tochide. What should you know, poor clerical creature, of the mystery oflove of the eternal man and the eternal woman, of the self-effectuationof a soul?"
"That is true," said Emily angrily. "Harry, you would never have made mehappy. I shall treat you as a friend, but how could I give myself to aman who makes such silly jokes? When you played the buffoon at tea, yourhour was sealed. I must be treated seriously: I must see infinitiesbroadening around me as I rise. You may not approve of it, but so I am.In the great solitude I have found myself at last."
"Wretched girl!" I cried. "Great solitude! O pair of helplesspuppets----"
The little friend began to lead Emily away, but I heard her whisper tohim: "Dear, we can't possibly leave the basket for Harry after this: andmother's rug; do you mind having that in the other hand?"
So they departed and I flung myself upon the ground with everyappearance of despair.
"Does he cry?" said the Faun.
"He does not cry," answered the hill. "His eyes are as dry as pebbles."
My tormentor made me look at him. "I see happiness at the bottom of yourheart," said he.
"I trust I have my secret springs," I answered stiffly. And then Iprepared a scathing denunciation, but of all the words I might havesaid, I only said one and it began with "D."
He gave a joyful cry, "Oh, now you really belong to us. To the end ofyour life you will swear when you are cross and laugh when you arehappy. Now laugh!"
There was a great silence. All nature stood waiting, while a curatetried to conceal his thoughts not only from nature but from himself. Ithought of my injured pride, of my baffled unselfishness, of Emily, whomI was losing through no fault of her own, of the little friend, who justthen slipped beneath the heavy tea basket, and that decided me, and Ilaughed.
That evening, for the first time, I heard the chalk downs singing toeach other across the valleys, as they often do when the air is quietand they have had a comfortable day. From my study window I could seethe sunlit figure of the Faun, sitting before the beech copse as a mansits before his house. And as night came on I knew for certain that notonly was he asleep, but that the hills and woods were asleep also. Thestream, of course, never slept, any more than it ever freezes. Indeed,the hour of darkness is really the hour of water, which has beensomewhat stifled all day by the great pulsings of the land. That is whyyou can feel it and hear it from a greater distance in the night, andwhy a bath after sundown is most wonderful.
The joy of that first evening is still clear in my memory, in spite ofall the happy years that have followed. I remember it when I ascend mypulpit--I have a living now--and look down upon the best people sittingbeneath me pew after pew, generous and contented, upon the worse people,crowded in the aisles, upon the whiskered tenors of the choir, and thehigh-browed curates and the church-wardens fingering their bags, and thesupercilious vergers who turn late comers from the door. I remember italso when I sit in my comfortable bachelor reftory, amidst the carpetslippers that good young ladies have worked for me, and the oak bracketsthat have been carved for me by good young men; amidst my phalanx ofpresentation teapots and my illuminated testimonials and all the otherofferings of people who believe that I have given them a helping hand,and who really have helped me out of the mire themselves. And though Itry to communicate that joy to others--as I try to communicate anythingelse that seems good--and though I sometimes succeed, yet I can tell noone exactly how it came to me. For if I breathed one word of that, mypresent life, so agreeable and profitable, would come to an end, mycongregation would depart, and so should I, and instead of being anasset to my parish, I might find myself an expense to the nation.Therefore in the place of the lyrical and rhetorical treatment, sosuitable to the subject, so congenial to my profession, I have beenforced to use the unworthy medium of a narrative, and to delude you bydeclaring that this is a short story, suitable for reading in the train.



THE ROAD FROM COLONUS

I

For no very intelligible reason, Mr. Lucas had hurried ahead of hisparty. He was perhaps reaching the age at which independence becomesvaluable, because it is so soon to be lost. Tired of attention andconsideration, he liked breaking away from the younger members, to rideby himself, and to dismount unassisted. Perhaps he also relished thatmore subtle pleasure of being kept waiting for lunch, and of telling theothers on their arrival that it was of no consequence.
So, with childish impatience, he battered the animal's sides with hisheels, and made the muleteer bang it with a thick stick and prick itwith a sharp one, and jolted down the hill sides through clumps offlowering shrubs and stretches of anemones and asphodel, till he heardthe sound of running water, and came in sight of the group of planetrees where they were to have their meal.
Even in England those trees would have been remarkable, so huge werethey, so interlaced, so magnificently clothed in quivering green. Andhere in Greece they were unique, the one cool spot in that hardbrilliant landscape, already scorched by the heat of an April sun. Intheir midst was hidden a tiny Khan or country inn, a frail mud buildingwith a broad wooden balcony in which sat an old woman spinning, while asmall brown pig, eating orange peel, stood beside her. On the wet earthbelow squatted two children, playing some primaeval game with theirfingers; and their mother, none too clean either, was messing with somerice inside. As Mrs. Forman would have said, it was all very Greek, andthe fastidious Mr. Lucas felt thankful that they were bringing their ownfood with them, and should eat it in the open air.
Still, he was glad to be there--the muleteer had helped him off--andglad that Mrs. Forman was not there to forestall his opinions--glad eventhat he should not see Ethel for quite half an hour. Ethel was hisyoungest daughter, still unmarried. She was unselfish and affectionate,and it was generally understood that she was to devote her life to herfather, and be the comfort of his old age. Mrs. Forman always referredto her as Antigone, and Mr. Lucas tried to settle down to the role ofOedipus, which seemed the only one that public opinion allowed him.
He had this in common with Oedipus, that he was growing old. Even tohimself it had become obvious. He had lost interest in other people'saffairs, and seldom attended when they spoke to him. He was fond oftalking himself but often forgot what he was going to say, and even whenhe succeeded, it seldom seemed worth the effort. His phrases andgestures had become stiff and set, his anecdotes, once so successful,fell flat, his silence was as meaningless as his speech. Yet he had leda healthy, active life, had worked steadily, made money, educated hischildren. There was nothing and no one to blame: he was simply growingold.
At the present moment, here he was in Greece, and one of the dreams ofhis life was realized. Forty years ago he had caught the fever ofHellenism, and all his life he had felt that could he but visit thatland, he would not have lived in vain. But Athens had been dusty, Delphiwet, Thermopylae flat, and he had listened with amazement and cynicismto the rapturous exclamations of his companions. Greece was likeEngland: it was a man who was growing old, and it made no differencewhether that man looked at the Thames or the Eurotas. It was his lasthope of contradicting that logic of experience, and it was failing.
Yet Greece had done something for him, though he did not know it. It hadmade him discontented, and there are stirrings of life in discontent. Heknew that he was not the victim of continual ill-luck. Something greatwas wrong, and he was pitted against no mediocre or accidental enemy.For the last month a strange desire had possessed him to die fighting.
"Greece is the land for young people," he said to himself as he stoodunder the plane trees, "but I will enter into it, I will possess it.Leaves shall be green again, water shall be sweet, the sky shall beblue. They were so forty years ago, and I will win them back. I do mindbeing old, and I will pretend no longer."
He took two steps forward, and immediately cold waters were gurglingover his ankle.
"Where does the water come from?" he asked himself. "I do not even knowthat." He remembered that all the hill sides were dry; yet here the roadwas suddenly covered with flowing streams.
He stopped still in amazement, saying: "Water out of a tree--out of ahollow tree? I never saw nor thought of that before."
For the enormous plane that leant towards the Khan was hollow--it hadbeen burnt out for charcoal--and from its living trunk there gushed animpetuous spring, coating the bark! with fern and moss, and flowing overthe mule track to create fertile meadows beyond. The simple country folkhad paid to beauty and mystery such tribute as they could, for in therind of the tree a shrine was cut, holding a lamp and a little pictureof the Virgin, inheritor of the Naiad's and Dryad's joint abode.
"I never saw anything so marvellous before," said Mr. Lucas. "I couldeven step inside the trunk and see where the water comes from."
For a moment he hesitated to violate the shrine. Then he remembered witha smile his own thought--"the place shall be mine; I will enter it andpossess it"--and leapt almost aggressively on to a stone within.
The water pressed up steadily and noiselessly from the hollow roots andhidden crevices of the plane, forming a wonderful amber pool ere itspilt over the lip of bark on to the earth outside. Mr. Lucas tasted itand it was sweet, and when he looked up the black funnel of the trunk hesaw sky which was blue, and some leaves which were green; and heremembered, without smiling, another of his thoughts.
Others had been before him--indeed he had a curious sense ofcompanionship. Little votive offerings to the presiding Power werefastened on to the bark--tiny arms and legs and eyes in tin, grotesquemodels of the brain or the heart--all tokens of some recovery ofstrength or wisdom or love. There was no such thing as the solitude ofnature for the sorrows and joys of humanity had pressed even into thebosom of a tree. He spread out his arms and steadied himself against thesoft charred wood, and then slowly leant back, till his body was restingon the trunk behind. His eyes closed, and he had the strange feeling ofone who is moving, yet at peace--the feeling of the swimmer, who, afterlong struggling with chopping seas, finds that after all the tide willsweep him to his goal.
So he lay motionless, conscious only of the stream below his feet, andthat all things were a stream, in which he was moving.
He was aroused at last by a shock--the shock of an arrival perhaps, forwhen he opened his eyes, something unimagined, indefinable, had passedover all things, and made them intelligible and good.
There was meaning in the stoop of the old woman over her work, and inthe quick motions of the little pig, and in her diminishing globe ofwool. A young man came singing over the streams on a mule, and there wasbeauty in his pose and sincerity in his greeting. The sun made noaccidental patterns upon the spreading roots of the trees, and there wasintention in the nodding clumps of asphodel, and in the music of thewater. To Mr. Lucas, who, in a brief space of time, had discovered notonly Greece, but England and all the world and life, there seemednothing ludicrous in the desire to hang within the tree another votiveoffering--a little model of an entire man.
"Why, here's papa, playing at being Merlin."
All unnoticed they had arrived--Ethel, Mrs. Forman, Mr. Graham, and theEnglish-speaking dragoman. Mr. Lucas peered out at them suspiciously.They had suddenly become unfamiliar, and all that they did seemedstrained and coarse.
"Allow me to give you a hand," said Mr. Graham, a young man who wasalways polite to his elders.
Mr. Lucas felt annoyed. "Thank you, I can manage perfectly well bymyself," he replied. His foot slipped as he stepped out of the tree, andwent into the spring.
"Oh papa, my papa!" said Ethel, "what are you doing? Thank goodness Ihave got a change for you on the mule."
She tended him carefully, giving him clean socks and dry boots, and thensat him down on the rug beside the lunch basket, while she went with theothers to explore the grove.
They came back in ecstasies, in which Mr. Lucas tried to join. But hefound them intolerable. Their enthusiasm was superficial, commonplace,and spasmodic. They had no perception of the coherent beauty wasflowering around them. He tried at least to explain his feelings, andwhat he said was:
"I am altogether pleased with the appearance of this place. It impressesme very favourably. The trees are fine, remarkably fine for Greece, andthere is something very poetic in the spring of clear running water. Thepeople too seem kindly and civil. It is decidedly an attractive place."
Mrs. Forman upbraided him for his tepid praise.
"Oh, it is a place in a thousand!" she cried "I could live and die here!I really would stop if I had not to be back at Athens! It reminds me ofthe Colonus of Sophocles."
"Well, I must stop," said Ethel. "I positively must."
"Yes, do! You and your father! Antigone and Oedipus. Of course you muststop at Colonus!"
Mr. Lucas was almost breathless with excitement. When he stood withinthe tree, he had believed that his happiness would be independent oflocality. But these few minutes' conversation had undeceived him. He nolonger trusted himself to journey through the world, for old thoughts,old wearinesses might be waiting to rejoin him as soon as he left theshade of the planes, and the music of the virgin water. To sleep in theKhan with the gracious, kind-eyed country people, to watch the bats flitabout within the globe of shade, and see the moon turn the goldenpatterns into silver--one such night would place him beyond relapse, andconfirm him for ever in the kingdom he had regained. But all his lipscould say was: "I should be willing to put in a night here."
"You mean a week, papa! It would be sacrilege to put in less."
"A week then, a week," said his lips, irritated at being corrected,while his heart was leaping with joy. All through lunch he spoke to themno more, but watched the place he should know so well, and the peoplewho would so soon be his companions and friends. The inmates of the Khanonly consisted of an old woman, a middle-aged woman, a young man and twochildren, and to none of them had he spoken, yet he loved them as heloved everything that moved or breathed or existed beneath thebenedictory shade of the planes.
"_En route!_" said the shrill voice of Mrs. Forman. "Ethel! Mr. Graham!The best of things must end."
"To-night," thought Mr. Lucas, "they will light the little lamp by theshrine. And when we all sit together on the balcony, perhaps they willtell me which offerings they put up."
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Lucas," said Graham, "but they want to fold upthe rug you are sitting on."
Mr. Lucas got up, saying to himself: "Ethel shall go to bed first, andthen I will try to tell them about my offering too--for it is a thing Imust do. I think they will understand if I am left with them alone."
Ethel touched him on the cheek. "Papa! I've called you three times. Allthe mules are here."
"Mules? What mules?"
"Our mules. We're all waiting. Oh, Mr. Graham, do help my father on."
"I don't know what you're talking about, Ethel."
"My dearest papa, we must start. You know we have to get to Olympiato-night."
Mr. Lucas in pompous, confident tones replied: "I always did wish,Ethel, that you had a better head for plans. You know perfectly wellthat we are putting in a week here. It is your own suggestion."
Ethel was startled into impoliteness. "What a perfectly ridiculous idea.You must have known I was joking. Of course I meant I wished we could."
"Ah! if we could only do what we wished!" sighed Mrs. Forman, alreadyseated on her mule.
"Surely," Ethel continued in calmer tones, "you didn't think I meantit."
"Most certainly I did. I have made all my plans on the supposition thatwe are stopping here, and it will be extremely inconvenient, indeed,impossible for me to start."
He delivered this remark with an air of great conviction, and Mrs.Forman and Mr. Graham had to turn away to hide their smiles.
"I am sorry I spoke so carelessly; it was wrong of me. But, you know, wecan't break up our party, and even one night here would make us miss theboat at Patras."
Mrs. Forman, in an aside, called Mr. Graham's attention to the excellentway in which Ethel managed her father.
"I don't mind about the Patras boat. You said that we should stop here,and we are stopping."
It seemed as if the inhabitants of the Khan had divined in somemysterious way that the altercation touched them. The old woman stoppedher spinning, while the young man and the two children stood behind Mr.Lucas, as if supporting him.
Neither arguments nor entreaties moved him. He said little, but he wasabsolutely determined, because for the first time he saw his daily lifearight. What need had he to return to England? Who would miss him? Hisfriends were dead or cold. Ethel loved him in a way, but, as was right,she had other interests. His other children he seldom saw. He had onlyone other relative, his sister Julia, whom he both feared and hated. Itwas no effort to struggle. He would be a fool as well as a coward if hestirred from the place which brought him happiness and peace.
At last Ethel, to humour him, and not disinclined to air her modernGreek, went into the Khan with the astonished dragoman to look at therooms. The woman inside received them with loud welcomes, and the youngman, when no one was looking, began to lead Mr. Lucas' mule to thestable.
"Drop it, you brigand!" shouted Graham, who always declared thatforeigners could understand English if they chose. He was right, for theman obeyed, and they all stood waiting for Ethel's return.
She emerged at last, with close-gathered skirts, followed by thedragoman bearing the little pig, which he had bought at a bargain.
"My dear papa, I will do all I can for you, but stop in that Khan--no."
"Are there--fleas?" asked Mrs. Forman.
Ethel intimated that "fleas" was not the word.
"Well, I am afraid that settles it," said Mrs. Forman, "I know howparticular Mr. Lucas is."
"It does not settle it," said Mr. Lucas. "Ethel, you go on. I do notwant you. I don't know why I ever consulted you. I shall stop herealone."
"That is absolute nonsense," said Ethel, losing her temper. "How can yoube left alone at your age? How would you get your meals or your bath?All your letters are waiting for you at Patras. You'll miss the boat.That means missing the London operas, and upsetting all your engagementsfor the month. And as if you could travel by yourself!"
"They might knife you," was Mr. Graham's contribution.
The Greeks said nothing; but whenever Mr. Lucas looked their way, theybeckoned him towards the Khan. The children would even have drawn him bythe coat, and the old woman on the balcony stopped her almost completedspinning, and fixed him with mysterious appealing eyes. As he fought,the issue assumed gigantic proportions, and he believed that he was notmerely stopping because he had regained youth or seen beauty or foundhappiness, but because in, that place and with those people a supremeevent was awaiting him which would transfigure the face of the world.The moment was so tremendous that he abandoned words and arguments asuseless, and rested on the strength of his mighty unrevealed allies:silent men, murmuring water, and whispering trees. For the whole placecalled with one voice, articulate to him, and his garrulous opponentsbecame every minute more meaningless and absurd. Soon they would betired and go chattering away into the sun, leaving him to the cool groveand the moonlight and the destiny he foresaw.
Mrs. Forman and the dragoman had indeed already started, amid thepiercing screams of the little pig, and the struggle might have gone onindefinitely if Ethel had not called in Mr. Graham.
"Can you help me?" she whispered. "He is absolutely unmanageable."
"I'm no good at arguing--but if I could help you in any other way----"and he looked down complacently at his well-made figure.
Ethel hesitated. Then she said: "Help me in any way you can. After all,it is for his good that we do it."
"Then have his mule led up behind him."
So when Mr. Lucas thought he had gained the day, he suddenly felthimself lifted off the ground, and sat sideways on the saddle, and atthe same time the mule started off at a trot. He said nothing, for hehad nothing to say, and even his face showed little emotion as he feltthe shade pass and heard the sound of the water cease. Mr. Graham wasrunning at his side, hat in hand, apologizing.
"I know I had no business to do it, and I do beg your pardon awfully.But I do hope that some day you too will feel that I was--damn!"
A stone had caught him in the middle of the back. It was thrown by thelittle boy, who was pursuing them along the mule track. He was followedby his sister, also throwing stones.
Ethel screamed to the dragoman, who was some way ahead with Mrs. Forman,but before he could rejoin them, another adversary appeared. It was theyoung Greek, who had cut them off in front, and now dashed down at Mr.Lucas' bridle. Fortunately Graham was an expert boxer, and it did nottake him a moment to beat down the youth's feeble defence, and to sendhim sprawling with a bleeding mouth into the asphodel. By this time thedragoman had arrived, the children, alarmed at the fate of theirbrother, had desisted, and the rescue party, if such it is to beconsidered, retired in disorder to the trees.
"Little devils!" said Graham, laughing; with triumph. "That's the modernGreek all over. Your father meant money if he stopped, and they considerwe were taking it out of their pocket."
"Oh, they are terrible--simple savages! I don't know how I shall everthank you. You've saved my father."
"I only hope you didn't think me brutal."
"No," replied Ethel with a little sigh. "I admire strength."
Meanwhile the cavalcade reformed, and Mr. Lucas, who, as Mrs. Formansaid, bore his disappointment wonderfully well, was put comfortably onto his mule. They hurried up the opposite hillside, fearful of anotherattack, and it was not until they had left the eventful place far behindthat Ethel found an opportunity to speak to her father and ask hispardon for the way she had treated him.
"You seemed so different, dear father, and you quite frightened me. NowI feel that you are your old self again."
He did not answer, and she concluded that he was not unnaturallyoffended at her behaviour.
By one of those curious tricks of mountain scenery, the place they hadleft an hour before suddenly reappeared far below them. The Khan washidden under the green dome, but in the open there still stood threefigures, and through the pure air rose up a faint cry of defiance orfarewell.
Mr. Lucas stopped irresolutely, and let the reins fall from his hand.
"Come, father dear," said Ethel gently.
He obeyed, and in another moment a spur of the hill hid the dangerousscene for ever.


II

It was breakfast time, but the gas was alight, owing to the fog. Mr.Lucas was in the middle of an account of a bad night he had spent,Ethel, who was to be married in a few weeks, had her arms on the table,listening.
"First the door bell rang, then you came back from the theatre. Then thedog started, and after the dog the cat. And at three in the morning ayoung hooligan passed by singing. Oh yes: then there was the watergurgling in the pipe above my head."
"I think that was only the bath water running away," said Ethel, lookingrather worn.
"Well, there's nothing I dislike more than running water. It'sperfectly impossible to sleep in the house. I shall give it up. I shallgive notice next quarter. I shall tell the landlord plainly, 'The reasonI am giving up the house is this: it is perfectly impossible to sleep init.' If he says--says--well, what has he got to say?"
"Some more toast, father?"
"Thank you, my dear." He took it, and there was an interval of peace.
But he soon recommenced. "I'm not going to submit to the practising nextdoor as tamely as they think. I wrote and told them so--didn't I?"
"Yes," said Ethel, who had taken care that the letter should not reach."I have seen the governess, and she has promised to arrange itdifferently. And Aunt Julia hates noise. It will sure to be all right."
Her aunt, being the only unattached member of the family, was coming tokeep house for her father when she left him. The reference was not ahappy one, and Mr. Lucas commenced a series of half articulate sighs,which was only stopped by the arrival of the post.
"Oh, what a parcel!" cried Ethel. "For me! What can it be! Greek stamps.This is most exciting!"
It proved to be some asphodel bulbs, sent by Mrs. Forman from Athens forplanting in the conservatory.
"Doesn't it bring it all back! You remember the asphodels, father. Andall wrapped up in Greek newspapers. I wonder if I can read them still. Iused to be able to, you know."
She rattled on, hoping to conceal the laughter of the children nextdoor--a favourite source of querulousness at breakfast time.
"Listen to me! 'A rural disaster.' Oh, I've hit on something sad. Butnever mind. 'Last Tuesday at Plataniste, in the province of messenia, ashocking tragedy occurred. A large tree'--aren't I getting onwell?--'blew down in the night and'--wait a minute--oh, dear! 'crushedto death the five occupants of the little Khan there, who had apparentlybeen sitting in the balcony. The bodies of Maria Rhomaides, the agedproprietress, and of her daughter, aged forty-six, were easilyrecognizable, whereas that of her grandson'--oh, the rest is really toohorrid; I wish I had never tried it, and what's more I feel to haveheard the name Plataniste before. We didn't stop there, did we, in thespring?"
"We had lunch," said Mr. Lucas, with a faint expression of trouble onhis vacant face. "Perhaps it was where the dragoman bought the pig."
"Of course," said Ethel in a nervous voice. "Where the dragoman boughtthe little pig. How terrible!"
"Very terrible!" said her father, whose attention was wandering to thenoisy children next door. Ethel suddenly started to her feet withgenuine interest.
"Good gracious!" she exclaimed. "This is an old paper. It happened notlately but in April--the night of Tuesday the eighteenth--and we--wemust have been there in the afternoon."
"So we were," said Mr. Lucas. She put her hand to her heart, scarcelyable to speak.
"Father, dear father, I must say it: you wanted to stop there. All thosepeople, those poor half savage people, tried, to keep you, and they'redead. The whole place, it says, is in ruins, and even the stream haschanged its course. Father, dear, if it had not been for me, and ifArthur had not helped me, you must have been killed."
Mr. Lucas waved his hand irritably. "It is not a bit of good speaking tothe governess, I shall write to the landlord and say, 'The reason I amgiving up the house is this: the dog barks, the children next door areintolerable, and I cannot stand the noise of running water.'"
Ethel did not check his babbling. She was aghast at the narrowness ofthe escape, and for a long time kept silence. At last she said: "Such amarvellous deliverance does make one believe in Providence."
Mr. Lucas, who was still composing his letter to the landlord, did notreply.