PART ONE


CHAPTER I
A SHIFTING REEF
The year 1866 was signalised by a remarkable incident, a mysterious andpuzzling phenomenon, which doubtless no one has yet forgotten.  Not tomention rumours which agitated the maritime population and excited thepublic mind, even in the interior of continents, seafaring men wereparticularly excited.  Merchants, common sailors, captains of vessels,skippers, both of Europe and America, naval officers of all countries,and the Governments of several States on the two continents, weredeeply interested in the matter.
For some time past vessels had been met by "an enormous thing," a longobject, spindle-shaped, occasionally phosphorescent, and infinitelylarger and more rapid in its movements than a whale.
The facts relating to this apparition (entered in various log-books)agreed in most respects as to the shape of the object or creature inquestion, the untiring rapidity of its movements, its surprising powerof locomotion, and the peculiar life with which it seemed endowed.  Ifit was a whale, it surpassed in size all those hitherto classified inscience.  Taking into consideration the mean of observations made atdivers times--rejecting the timid estimate of those who assigned tothis object a length of two hundred feet, equally with the exaggeratedopinions which set it down as a mile in width and three in length--wemight fairly conclude that this mysterious being surpassed greatly alldimensions admitted by the learned ones of the day, if it existed atall.  And that it DID exist was an undeniable fact; and, with thattendency which disposes the human mind in favour of the marvellous, wecan understand the excitement produced in the entire world by thissupernatural apparition.  As to classing it in the list of fables, theidea was out of the question.
On the 20th of July, 1866, the steamer Governor Higginson, of theCalcutta and Burnach Steam Navigation Company, had met this moving massfive miles off the east coast of Australia.  Captain Baker thought atfirst that he was in the presence of an unknown sandbank; he evenprepared to determine its exact position when two columns of water,projected by the mysterious object, shot with a hissing noise a hundredand fifty feet up into the air.  Now, unless the sandbank had beensubmitted to the intermittent eruption of a geyser, the GovernorHigginson had to do neither more nor less than with an aquatic mammal,unknown till then, which threw up from its blow-holes columns of watermixed with air and vapour.
Similar facts were observed on the 23rd of July in the same year, inthe Pacific Ocean, by the Columbus, of the West India and Pacific SteamNavigation Company.  But this extraordinary creature could transportitself from one place to another with surprising velocity; as, in aninterval of three days, the Governor Higginson and the Columbus hadobserved it at two different points of the chart, separated by adistance of more than seven hundred nautical leagues.
Fifteen days later, two thousand miles farther off, the Helvetia, ofthe Compagnie-Nationale, and the Shannon, of the Royal Mail SteamshipCompany, sailing to windward in that portion of the Atlantic lyingbetween the United States and Europe, respectively signalled themonster to each other in 42° 15' N. lat. and 60° 35' W. long.In these simultaneous observations they thought themselves justified inestimating the minimum length of the mammal at more than three hundredand fifty feet, as the Shannon and Helvetia were of smaller dimensionsthan it, though they measured three hundred feet over all.
Now the largest whales, those which frequent those parts of the searound the Aleutian, Kulammak, and Umgullich islands, have neverexceeded the length of sixty yards, if they attain that.
In every place of great resort the monster was the fashion.  They sangof it in the cafes, ridiculed it in the papers, and represented it onthe stage.  All kinds of stories were circulated regarding it.  Thereappeared in the papers caricatures of every gigantic and imaginarycreature, from the white whale, the terrible "Moby Dick" of sub-arcticregions, to the immense kraken, whose tentacles could entangle a shipof five hundred tons and hurry it into the abyss of the ocean.  Thelegends of ancient times were even revived.
Then burst forth the unending argument between the believers and theunbelievers in the societies of the wise and the scientific journals."The question of the monster" inflamed all minds.  Editors ofscientific journals, quarrelling with believers in the supernatural,spilled seas of ink during this memorable campaign, some even drawingblood; for from the sea-serpent they came to direct personalities.
During the first months of the year 1867 the question seemed buried,never to revive, when new facts were brought before the public.  It wasthen no longer a scientific problem to be solved, but a real dangerseriously to be avoided.  The question took quite another shape.  Themonster became a small island, a rock, a reef, but a reef of indefiniteand shifting proportions.
On the 5th of March, 1867, the Moravian, of the Montreal Ocean Company,finding herself during the night in 27° 30' lat. and 72° 15'long., struck on her starboard quarter a rock, marked in no chart forthat part of the sea.  Under the combined efforts of the wind and itsfour hundred horse power, it was going at the rate of thirteen knots.Had it not been for the superior strength of the hull of the Moravian,she would have been broken by the shock and gone down with the 237passengers she was bringing home from Canada.
The accident happened about five o'clock in the morning, as the day wasbreaking.  The officers of the quarter-deck hurried to the after-partof the vessel.  They examined the sea with the most careful attention.They saw nothing but a strong eddy about three cables' length distant,as if the surface had been violently agitated.  The bearings of theplace were taken exactly, and the Moravian continued its route withoutapparent damage.  Had it struck on a submerged rock, or on an enormouswreck?  They could not tell; but, on examination of the ship's bottomwhen undergoing repairs, it was found that part of her keel was broken.
This fact, so grave in itself, might perhaps have been forgotten likemany others if, three weeks after, it had not been re-enacted undersimilar circumstances.  But, thanks to the nationality of the victim ofthe shock, thanks to the reputation of the company to which the vesselbelonged, the circumstance became extensively circulated.
The 13th of April, 1867, the sea being beautiful, the breezefavourable, the Scotia, of the Cunard Company's line, found herself in15° 12' long. and 45° 37' lat.  She was going at the speed ofthirteen knots and a half.
At seventeen minutes past four in the afternoon, whilst the passengerswere assembled at lunch in the great saloon, a slight shock was felt onthe hull of the Scotia, on her quarter, a little aft of the port-paddle.
The Scotia had not struck, but she had been struck, and seemingly bysomething rather sharp and penetrating than blunt.  The shock had beenso slight that no one had been alarmed, had it not been for the shoutsof the carpenter's watch, who rushed on to the bridge, exclaiming, "Weare sinking! we are sinking!"  At first the passengers were muchfrightened, but Captain Anderson hastened to reassure them.  The dangercould not be imminent.  The Scotia, divided into seven compartments bystrong partitions, could brave with impunity any leak.  CaptainAnderson went down immediately into the hold.  He found that the seawas pouring into the fifth compartment; and the rapidity of the influxproved that the force of the water was considerable.  Fortunately thiscompartment did not hold the boilers, or the fires would have beenimmediately extinguished.  Captain Anderson ordered the engines to bestopped at once, and one of the men went down to ascertain the extentof the injury.  Some minutes afterwards they discovered the existenceof a large hole, two yards in diameter, in the ship's bottom.  Such aleak could not be stopped; and the Scotia, her paddles half submerged,was obliged to continue her course.  She was then three hundred milesfrom Cape Clear, and, after three days' delay, which caused greatuneasiness in Liverpool, she entered the basin of the company.
The engineers visited the Scotia, which was put in dry dock.  Theycould scarcely believe it possible; at two yards and a half belowwater-mark was a regular rent, in the form of an isosceles triangle.The broken place in the iron plates was so perfectly defined that itcould not have been more neatly done by a punch.  It was clear, then,that the instrument producing the perforation was not of a common stampand, after having been driven with prodigious strength, and piercing aniron plate 1 3/8 inches thick, had withdrawn itself by a backwardmotion.
Such was the last fact, which resulted in exciting once more thetorrent of public opinion.  From this moment all unlucky casualtieswhich could not be otherwise accounted for were put down to the monster.
Upon this imaginary creature rested the responsibility of all theseshipwrecks, which unfortunately were considerable; for of threethousand ships whose loss was annually recorded at Lloyd's, the numberof sailing and steam-ships supposed to be totally lost, from theabsence of all news, amounted to not less than two hundred!
Now, it was the "monster" who, justly or unjustly, was accused of theirdisappearance, and, thanks to it, communication between the differentcontinents became more and more dangerous.  The public demanded sharplythat the seas should at any price be relieved from this formidablecetacean.[1]

[1] Member of the whale family.


CHAPTER II
PRO AND CON
At the period when these events took place, I had just returned from ascientific research in the disagreeable territory of Nebraska, in theUnited States.  In virtue of my office as Assistant Professor in theMuseum of Natural History in Paris, the French Government had attachedme to that expedition.  After six months in Nebraska, I arrived in NewYork towards the end of March, laden with a precious collection.  Mydeparture for France was fixed for the first days in May.  Meanwhile Iwas occupying myself in classifying my mineralogical, botanical, andzoological riches, when the accident happened to the Scotia.
I was perfectly up in the subject which was the question of the day.How could I be otherwise?  I had read and reread all the American andEuropean papers without being any nearer a conclusion.  This mysterypuzzled me.  Under the impossibility of forming an opinion, I jumpedfrom one extreme to the other.  That there really was something couldnot be doubted, and the incredulous were invited to put their finger onthe wound of the Scotia.
On my arrival at New York the question was at its height.  The theoryof the floating island, and the unapproachable sandbank, supported byminds little competent to form a judgment, was abandoned.  And, indeed,unless this shoal had a machine in its stomach, how could it change itsposition with such astonishing rapidity?
From the same cause, the idea of a floating hull of an enormous wreckwas given up.
There remained, then, only two possible solutions of the question,which created two distinct parties:  on one side, those who were for amonster of colossal strength; on the other, those who were for asubmarine vessel of enormous motive power.
But this last theory, plausible as it was, could not stand againstinquiries made in both worlds.  That a private gentleman should havesuch a machine at his command was not likely.  Where, when, and how wasit built? and how could its construction have been kept secret?Certainly a Government might possess such a destructive machine.  Andin these disastrous times, when the ingenuity of man has multiplied thepower of weapons of war, it was possible that, without the knowledge ofothers, a State might try to work such a formidable engine.
But the idea of a war machine fell before the declaration ofGovernments.  As public interest was in question, and transatlanticcommunications suffered, their veracity could not be doubted.  But howadmit that the construction of this submarine boat had escaped thepublic eye?  For a private gentleman to keep the secret under suchcircumstances would be very difficult, and for a State whose every actis persistently watched by powerful rivals, certainly impossible.
Upon my arrival in New York several persons did me the honour ofconsulting me on the phenomenon in question.  I had published in Francea work in quarto, in two volumes, entitled Mysteries of the GreatSubmarine Grounds.  This book, highly approved of in the learned world,gained for me a special reputation in this rather obscure branch ofNatural History.  My advice was asked.  As long as I could deny thereality of the fact, I confined myself to a decided negative.  Butsoon, finding myself driven into a corner, I was obliged to explainmyself point by point.  I discussed the question in all its forms,politically and scientifically; and I give here an extract from acarefully-studied article which I published in the number of the 30thof April.  It ran as follows:
"After examining one by one the different theories, rejecting all othersuggestions, it becomes necessary to admit the existence of a marineanimal of enormous power.
"The great depths of the ocean are entirely unknown to us.  Soundingscannot reach them.  What passes in those remote depths--what beingslive, or can live, twelve or fifteen miles beneath the surface of thewaters--what is the organisation of these animals, we can scarcelyconjecture.  However, the solution of the problem submitted to me maymodify the form of the dilemma.  Either we do know all the varieties ofbeings which people our planet, or we do not.  If we do NOT know themall--if Nature has still secrets in the deeps for us, nothing is moreconformable to reason than to admit the existence of fishes, orcetaceans of other kinds, or even of new species, of an organisationformed to inhabit the strata inaccessible to soundings, and which anaccident of some sort has brought at long intervals to the upper levelof the ocean.
"If, on the contrary, we DO know all living kinds, we must necessarilyseek for the animal in question amongst those marine beings alreadyclassed; and, in that case, I should be disposed to admit the existenceof a gigantic narwhal.
"The common narwhal, or unicorn of the sea, often attains a length ofsixty feet.  Increase its size fivefold or tenfold, give it strengthproportionate to its size, lengthen its destructive weapons, and youobtain the animal required.  It will have the proportions determined bythe officers of the Shannon, the instrument required by the perforationof the Scotia, and the power necessary to pierce the hull of thesteamer.
"Indeed, the narwhal is armed with a sort of ivory sword, a halberd,according to the expression of certain naturalists.  The principal tuskhas the hardness of steel.  Some of these tusks have been found buriedin the bodies of whales, which the unicorn always attacks with success.Others have been drawn out, not without trouble, from the bottoms ofships, which they had pierced through and through, as a gimlet piercesa barrel.  The Museum of the Faculty of Medicine of Paris possesses oneof these defensive weapons, two yards and a quarter in length, andfifteen inches in diameter at the base.
"Very well! suppose this weapon to be six times stronger and the animalten times more powerful; launch it at the rate of twenty miles an hour,and you obtain a shock capable of producing the catastrophe required.Until further information, therefore, I shall maintain it to be asea-unicorn of colossal dimensions, armed not with a halberd, but witha real spur, as the armoured frigates, or the `rams' of war, whosemassiveness and motive power it would possess at the same time.  Thusmay this puzzling phenomenon be explained, unless there be somethingover and above all that one has ever conjectured, seen, perceived, orexperienced; which is just within the bounds of possibility."
These last words were cowardly on my part; but, up to a certain point,I wished to shelter my dignity as professor, and not give too muchcause for laughter to the Americans, who laugh well when they do laugh.I reserved for myself a way of escape.  In effect, however, I admittedthe existence of the "monster." My article was warmly discussed, whichprocured it a high reputation.  It rallied round it a certain number ofpartisans.  The solution it proposed gave, at least, full liberty tothe imagination.  The human mind delights in grand conceptions ofsupernatural beings.  And the sea is precisely their best vehicle, theonly medium through which these giants (against which terrestrialanimals, such as elephants or rhinoceroses, are as nothing) can beproduced or developed.
The industrial and commercial papers treated the question chiefly fromthis point of view.  The Shipping and Mercantile Gazette, the Lloyd'sList, the Packet-Boat, and the Maritime and Colonial Review, all papersdevoted to insurance companies which threatened to raise their rates ofpremium, were unanimous on this point.  Public opinion had beenpronounced.  The United States were the first in the field; and in NewYork they made preparations for an expedition destined to pursue thisnarwhal.  A frigate of great speed, the Abraham Lincoln, was put incommission as soon as possible.  The arsenals were opened to CommanderFarragut, who hastened the arming of his frigate; but, as it alwayshappens, the moment it was decided to pursue the monster, the monsterdid not appear.  For two months no one heard it spoken of.  No ship metwith it.  It seemed as if this unicorn knew of the plots weaving aroundit.  It had been so much talked of, even through the Atlantic cable,that jesters pretended that this slender fly had stopped a telegram onits passage and was making the most of it.
So when the frigate had been armed for a long campaign, and providedwith formidable fishing apparatus, no one could tell what course topursue.  Impatience grew apace, when, on the 2nd of July, they learnedthat a steamer of the line of San Francisco, from California toShanghai, had seen the animal three weeks before in the North PacificOcean.  The excitement caused by this news was extreme.  The ship wasrevictualled and well stocked with coal.
Three hours before the Abraham Lincoln left Brooklyn pier, I received aletter worded as follows:
To M. ARONNAX, Professor in the Museum of Paris, Fifth Avenue Hotel,New York.
SIR,--If you will consent to join the Abraham Lincoln in thisexpedition, the Government of the United States will with pleasure seeFrance represented in the enterprise.  Commander Farragut has a cabinat your disposal.
Very cordially yours, J.B. HOBSON, Secretary of Marine.


CHAPTER III
I FORM MY RESOLUTION
Three seconds before the arrival of J. B. Hobson's letter I no morethought of pursuing the unicorn than of attempting the passage of theNorth Sea.  Three seconds after reading the letter of the honourableSecretary of Marine, I felt that my true vocation, the sole end of mylife, was to chase this disturbing monster and purge it from the world.
But I had just returned from a fatiguing journey, weary and longing forrepose.  I aspired to nothing more than again seeing my country, myfriends, my little lodging by the Jardin des Plantes, my dear andprecious collections--but nothing could keep me back!  I forgotall--fatigue, friends and collections--and accepted without hesitationthe offer of the American Government.
"Besides," thought I, "all roads lead back to Europe; and the unicornmay be amiable enough to hurry me towards the coast of France.  Thisworthy animal may allow itself to be caught in the seas of Europe (formy particular benefit), and I will not bring back less than half a yardof his ivory halberd to the Museum of Natural History." But in themeanwhile I must seek this narwhal in the North Pacific Ocean, which,to return to France, was taking the road to the antipodes.
"Conseil," I called in an impatient voice.
Conseil was my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who hadaccompanied me in all my travels.  I liked him, and he returned theliking well.  He was quiet by nature, regular from principle, zealousfrom habit, evincing little disturbance at the different surprises oflife, very quick with his hands, and apt at any service required ofhim; and, despite his name, never giving advice--even when asked for it.
Conseil had followed me for the last ten years wherever science led.Never once did he complain of the length or fatigue of a journey, nevermake an objection to pack his portmanteau for whatever country it mightbe, or however far away, whether China or Congo.  Besides all this, hehad good health, which defied all sickness, and solid muscles, but nonerves; good morals are understood.  This boy was thirty years old, andhis age to that of his master as fifteen to twenty.  May I be excusedfor saying that I was forty years old?
But Conseil had one fault:  he was ceremonious to a degree, and wouldnever speak to me but in the third person, which was sometimesprovoking.
"Conseil," said I again, beginning with feverish hands to makepreparations for my departure.
Certainly I was sure of this devoted boy.  As a rule, I never asked himif it were convenient for him or not to follow me in my travels; butthis time the expedition in question might be prolonged, and theenterprise might be hazardous in pursuit of an animal capable ofsinking a frigate as easily as a nutshell.  Here there was matter forreflection even to the most impassive man in the world.  What wouldConseil say?
"Conseil," I called a third time.
Conseil appeared.
"Did you call, sir?" said he, entering.
"Yes, my boy; make preparations for me and yourself too.  We leave intwo hours."
"As you please, sir," replied Conseil, quietly.
"Not an instant to lose; lock in my trunk all travelling utensils,coats, shirts, and stockings--without counting, as many as you can, andmake haste."
"And your collections, sir?" observed Conseil.
"They will keep them at the hotel."
"We are not returning to Paris, then?" said Conseil.
"Oh! certainly," I answered, evasively, "by making a curve."
"Will the curve please you, sir?"
"Oh! it will be nothing; not quite so direct a road, that is all.  Wetake our passage in the Abraham, Lincoln."
"As you think proper, sir," coolly replied Conseil.
"You see, my friend, it has to do with the monster--the famous narwhal.We are going to purge it from the seas.  A glorious mission, but adangerous one!  We cannot tell where we may go; these animals can bevery capricious.  But we will go whether or no; we have got a captainwho is pretty wide-awake."
Our luggage was transported to the deck of the frigate immediately.  Ihastened on board and asked for Commander Farragut.  One of the sailorsconducted me to the poop, where I found myself in the presence of agood-looking officer, who held out his hand to me.
"Monsieur Pierre Aronnax?" said he.
"Himself," replied I. "Commander Farragut?"
"You are welcome, Professor; your cabin is ready for you."
I bowed, and desired to be conducted to the cabin destined for me.
The Abraham Lincoln had been well chosen and equipped for her newdestination.  She was a frigate of great speed, fitted withhigh-pressure engines which admitted a pressure of seven atmospheres.Under this the Abraham Lincoln attained the mean speed of nearlyeighteen knots and a third an hour--a considerable speed, but,nevertheless, insufficient to grapple with this gigantic cetacean.
The interior arrangements of the frigate corresponded to its nauticalqualities.  I was well satisfied with my cabin, which was in the afterpart, opening upon the gunroom.
"We shall be well off here," said I to Conseil.
"As well, by your honour's leave, as a hermit-crab in the shell of awhelk," said Conseil.
I left Conseil to stow our trunks conveniently away, and remounted thepoop in order to survey the preparations for departure.
At that moment Commander Farragut was ordering the last moorings to becast loose which held the Abraham Lincoln to the pier of Brooklyn.  Soin a quarter of an hour, perhaps less, the frigate would have sailedwithout me.  I should have missed this extraordinary, supernatural, andincredible expedition, the recital of which may well meet with somesuspicion.
But Commander Farragut would not lose a day nor an hour in scouring theseas in which the animal had been sighted.  He sent for the engineer.
"Is the steam full on?" asked he.
"Yes, sir," replied the engineer.
"Go ahead," cried Commander Farragut.


CHAPTER IV
NED LAND
Captain Farragut was a good seaman, worthy of the frigate he commanded.His vessel and he were one.  He was the soul of it.  On the question ofthe monster there was no doubt in his mind, and he would not allow theexistence of the animal to be disputed on board.  He believed in it, ascertain good women believe in the leviathan--by faith, not by reason.The monster did exist, and he had sworn to rid the seas of it.  EitherCaptain Farragut would kill the narwhal, or the narwhal would kill thecaptain.  There was no third course.
The officers on board shared the opinion of their chief.  They wereever chatting, discussing, and calculating the various chances of ameeting, watching narrowly the vast surface of the ocean.  More thanone took up his quarters voluntarily in the cross-trees, who would havecursed such a berth under any other circumstances.  As long as the sundescribed its daily course, the rigging was crowded with sailors, whosefeet were burnt to such an extent by the heat of the deck as to renderit unbearable; still the Abraham Lincoln had not yet breasted thesuspected waters of the Pacific.  As to the ship's company, theydesired nothing better than to meet the unicorn, to harpoon it, hoistit on board, and despatch it.  They watched the sea with eagerattention.
Besides, Captain Farragut had spoken of a certain sum of two thousanddollars, set apart for whoever should first sight the monster, were hecabin-boy, common seaman, or officer.
I leave you to judge how eyes were used on board the Abraham Lincoln.
For my own part I was not behind the others, and, left to no one myshare of daily observations.  The frigate might have been called theArgus, for a hundred reasons.  Only one amongst us, Conseil, seemed toprotest by his indifference against the question which so interested usall, and seemed to be out of keeping with the general enthusiasm onboard.
I have said that Captain Farragut had carefully provided his ship withevery apparatus for catching the gigantic cetacean.  No whaler had everbeen better armed.  We possessed every known engine, from the harpoonthrown by the hand to the barbed arrows of the blunderbuss, and theexplosive balls of the duck-gun.  On the forecastle lay the perfectionof a breech-loading gun, very thick at the breech, and very narrow inthe bore, the model of which had been in the Exhibition of 1867.  Thisprecious weapon of American origin could throw with ease a conicalprojectile of nine pounds to a mean distance of ten miles.
Thus the Abraham Lincoln wanted for no means of destruction; and, whatwas better still she had on board Ned Land, the prince of harpooners.
Ned Land was a Canadian, with an uncommon quickness of hand, and whoknew no equal in his dangerous occupation.  Skill, coolness, audacity,and cunning he possessed in a superior degree, and it must be a cunningwhale to escape the stroke of his harpoon.
Ned Land was about forty years of age; he was a tall man (more than sixfeet high), strongly built, grave and taciturn, occasionally violent,and very passionate when contradicted.  His person attracted attention,but above all the boldness of his look, which gave a singularexpression to his face.
Who calls himself Canadian calls himself French; and, littlecommunicative as Ned Land was, I must admit that he took a certainliking for me.  My nationality drew him to me, no doubt.  It was anopportunity for him to talk, and for me to hear, that old language ofRabelais, which is still in use in some Canadian provinces.  Theharpooner's family was originally from Quebec, and was already a tribeof hardy fishermen when this town belonged to France.
Little by little, Ned Land acquired a taste for chatting, and I lovedto hear the recital of his adventures in the polar seas.  He relatedhis fishing, and his combats, with natural poetry of expression; hisrecital took the form of an epic poem, and I seemed to be listening toa Canadian Homer singing the Iliad of the regions of the North.
I am portraying this hardy companion as I really knew him.  We are oldfriends now, united in that unchangeable friendship which is born andcemented amidst extreme dangers.  Ah, brave Ned!  I ask no more than tolive a hundred years longer, that I may have more time to dwell thelonger on your memory.
Now, what was Ned Land's opinion upon the question of the marinemonster?  I must admit that he did not believe in the unicorn, and wasthe only one on board who did not share that universal conviction.  Heeven avoided the subject, which I one day thought it my duty to pressupon him.  One magnificent evening, the 30th July (that is to say,three weeks after our departure), the frigate was abreast of CapeBlanc, thirty miles to leeward of the coast of Patagonia.  We hadcrossed the tropic of Capricorn, and the Straits of Magellan openedless than seven hundred miles to the south.  Before eight days wereover the Abraham Lincoln would be ploughing the waters of the Pacific.
Seated on the poop, Ned Land and I were chatting of one thing andanother as we looked at this mysterious sea, whose great depths had upto this time been inaccessible to the eye of man.  I naturally led upthe conversation to the giant unicorn, and examined the various chancesof success or failure of the expedition.  But, seeing that Ned Land letme speak without saying too much himself, I pressed him more closely.
"Well, Ned," said I, "is it possible that you are not convinced of theexistence of this cetacean that we are following?  Have you anyparticular reason for being so incredulous?"
The harpooner looked at me fixedly for some moments before answering,struck his broad forehead with his hand (a habit of his), as if tocollect himself, and said at last, "Perhaps I have, Mr. Aronnax."
"But, Ned, you, a whaler by profession, familiarised with all the greatmarine mammalia--YOU ought to be the last to doubt under suchcircumstances!"
"That is just what deceives you, Professor," replied Ned.  "As a whalerI have followed many a cetacean, harpooned a great number, and killedseveral; but, however strong or well-armed they may have been, neithertheir tails nor their weapons would have been able even to scratch theiron plates of a steamer."
"But, Ned, they tell of ships which the teeth of the narwhal havepierced through and through."
"Wooden ships--that is possible," replied the Canadian, "but I havenever seen it done; and, until further proof, I deny that whales,cetaceans, or sea-unicorns could ever produce the effect you describe."
"Well, Ned, I repeat it with a conviction resting on the logic offacts.  I believe in the existence of a mammal power fully organised,belonging to the branch of vertebrata, like the whales, the cachalots,or the dolphins, and furnished with a horn of defence of greatpenetrating power."
"Hum!" said the harpooner, shaking his head with the air of a man whowould not be convinced.
"Notice one thing, my worthy Canadian," I resumed.  "If such an animalis in existence, if it inhabits the depths of the ocean, if itfrequents the strata lying miles below the surface of the water, itmust necessarily possess an organisation the strength of which woulddefy all comparison."
"And why this powerful organisation?" demanded Ned.
"Because it requires incalculable strength to keep one's self in thesestrata and resist their pressure.  Listen to me.  Let us admit that thepressure of the atmosphere is represented by the weight of a column ofwater thirty-two feet high.  In reality the column of water would beshorter, as we are speaking of sea water, the density of which isgreater than that of fresh water.  Very well, when you dive, Ned, asmany times 32 feet of water as there are above you, so many times doesyour body bear a pressure equal to that of the atmosphere, that is tosay, 15 lb. for each square inch of its surface.  It follows, then,that at 320 feet this pressure equals that of 10 atmospheres, of 100atmospheres at 3,200 feet, and of 1,000 atmospheres at 32,000 feet,that is, about 6 miles; which is equivalent to saying that if you couldattain this depth in the ocean, each square three-eighths of an inch ofthe surface of your body would bear a pressure of 5,600 lb.  Ah! mybrave Ned, do you know how many square inches you carry on the surfaceof your body?"
"I have no idea, Mr. Aronnax."
"About 6,500; and as in reality the atmospheric pressure is about 15lb.  to the square inch, your 6,500 square inches bear at this moment apressure of 97,500 lb."
"Without my perceiving it?"
"Without your perceiving it.  And if you are not crushed by such apressure, it is because the air penetrates the interior of your bodywith equal pressure.  Hence perfect equilibrium between the interiorand exterior pressure, which thus neutralise each other, and whichallows you to bear it without inconvenience.  But in the water it isanother thing."
"Yes, I understand," replied Ned, becoming more attentive; "because thewater surrounds me, but does not penetrate."
"Precisely, Ned:  so that at 32 feet beneath the surface of the sea youwould undergo a pressure of 97,500 lb.; at 320 feet, ten times thatpressure; at 3,200 feet, a hundred times that pressure; lastly, at32,000 feet, a thousand times that pressure would be 97,500,000lb.--that is to say, that you would be flattened as if you had beendrawn from the plates of a hydraulic machine!"
"The devil!" exclaimed Ned.
"Very well, my worthy harpooner, if some vertebrate, several hundredyards long, and large in proportion, can maintain itself in suchdepths--of those whose surface is represented by millions of squareinches, that is by tens of millions of pounds, we must estimate thepressure they undergo.  Consider, then, what must be the resistance oftheir bony structure, and the strength of their organisation towithstand such pressure!"
"Why!" exclaimed Ned Land, "they must be made of iron plates eightinches thick, like the armoured frigates."
"As you say, Ned.  And think what destruction such a mass would cause,if hurled with the speed of an express train against the hull of avessel."
"Yes--certainly--perhaps," replied the Canadian, shaken by thesefigures, but not yet willing to give in.
"Well, have I convinced you?"
"You have convinced me of one thing, sir, which is that, if suchanimals do exist at the bottom of the seas, they must necessarily be asstrong as you say."
"But if they do not exist, mine obstinate harpooner, how explain theaccident to the Scotia?"


CHAPTER V
AT A VENTURE
The voyage of the Abraham Lincoln was for a long time marked by nospecial incident.  But one circumstance happened which showed thewonderful dexterity of Ned Land, and proved what confidence we mightplace in him.
The 30th of June, the frigate spoke some American whalers, from whom welearned that they knew nothing about the narwhal.  But one of them, thecaptain of the Monroe, knowing that Ned Land had shipped on board theAbraham Lincoln, begged for his help in chasing a whale they had insight.  Commander Farragut, desirous of seeing Ned Land at work, gavehim permission to go on board the Monroe.  And fate served our Canadianso well that, instead of one whale, he harpooned two with a doubleblow, striking one straight to the heart, and catching the other aftersome minutes' pursuit.
Decidedly, if the monster ever had to do with Ned Land's harpoon, Iwould not bet in its favour.
The frigate skirted the south-east coast of America with greatrapidity.  The 3rd of July we were at the opening of the Straits ofMagellan, level with Cape Vierges.  But Commander Farragut would nottake a tortuous passage, but doubled Cape Horn.
The ship's crew agreed with him.  And certainly it was possible thatthey might meet the narwhal in this narrow pass.  Many of the sailorsaffirmed that the monster could not pass there, "that he was too bigfor that!"
The 6th of July, about three o'clock in the afternoon, the AbrahamLincoln, at fifteen miles to the south, doubled the solitary island,this lost rock at the extremity of the American continent, to whichsome Dutch sailors gave the name of their native town, Cape Horn.  Thecourse was taken towards the north-west, and the next day the screw ofthe frigate was at last beating the waters of the Pacific.
"Keep your eyes open!" called out the sailors.
And they were opened widely.  Both eyes and glasses, a little dazzled,it is true, by the prospect of two thousand dollars, had not aninstant's repose.
I myself, for whom money had no charms, was not the least attentive onboard.  Giving but few minutes to my meals, but a few hours to sleep,indifferent to either rain or sunshine, I did not leave the poop of thevessel.  Now leaning on the netting of the forecastle, now on thetaffrail, I devoured with eagerness the soft foam which whitened thesea as far as the eye could reach; and how often have I shared theemotion of the majority of the crew, when some capricious whale raisedits black back above the waves!  The poop of the vessel was crowded ona moment.  The cabins poured forth a torrent of sailors and officers,each with heaving breast and troubled eye watching the course of thecetacean.  I looked and looked till I was nearly blind, whilst Conseilkept repeating in a calm voice:
"If, sir, you would not squint so much, you would see better!"
But vain excitement!  The Abraham Lincoln checked its speed and madefor the animal signalled, a simple whale, or common cachalot, whichsoon disappeared amidst a storm of abuse.
But the weather was good.  The voyage was being accomplished under themost favourable auspices.  It was then the bad season in Australia, theJuly of that zone corresponding to our January in Europe, but the seawas beautiful and easily scanned round a vast circumference.
The 20th of July, the tropic of Capricorn was cut by 105d of longitude,and the 27th of the same month we crossed the Equator on the 110thmeridian.  This passed, the frigate took a more decided westerlydirection, and scoured the central waters of the Pacific.  CommanderFarragut thought, and with reason, that it was better to remain in deepwater, and keep clear of continents or islands, which the beast itselfseemed to shun (perhaps because there was not enough water for him!suggested the greater part of the crew). The frigate passed at somedistance from the Marquesas and the Sandwich Islands, crossed thetropic of Cancer, and made for the China Seas.  We were on the theatreof the last diversions of the monster:  and, to say truth, we no longerLIVED on board.  The entire ship's crew were undergoing a nervousexcitement, of which I can give no idea:  they could not eat, theycould not sleep--twenty times a day, a misconception or an opticalillusion of some sailor seated on the taffrail, would cause dreadfulperspirations, and these emotions, twenty times repeated, kept us in astate of excitement so violent that a reaction was unavoidable.
And truly, reaction soon showed itself.  For three months, during whicha day seemed an age, the Abraham Lincoln furrowed all the waters of theNorthern Pacific, running at whales, making sharp deviations from hercourse, veering suddenly from one tack to another, stopping suddenly,putting on steam, and backing ever and anon at the risk of derangingher machinery, and not one point of the Japanese or American coast wasleft unexplored.
The warmest partisans of the enterprise now became its most ardentdetractors.  Reaction mounted from the crew to the captain himself, andcertainly, had it not been for the resolute determination on the partof Captain Farragut, the frigate would have headed due southward.  Thisuseless search could not last much longer.  The Abraham Lincoln hadnothing to reproach herself with, she had done her best to succeed.Never had an American ship's crew shown more zeal or patience; itsfailure could not be placed to their charge--there remained nothing butto return.
This was represented to the commander.  The sailors could not hidetheir discontent, and the service suffered.  I will not say there was amutiny on board, but after a reasonable period of obstinacy, CaptainFarragut (as Columbus did) asked for three days' patience.  If in threedays the monster did not appear, the man at the helm should give threeturns of the wheel, and the Abraham Lincoln would make for the Europeanseas.
This promise was made on the 2nd of November.  It had the effect ofrallying the ship's crew.  The ocean was watched with renewedattention.  Each one wished for a last glance in which to sum up hisremembrance.  Glasses were used with feverish activity.  It was a granddefiance given to the giant narwhal, and he could scarcely fail toanswer the summons and "appear."
Two days passed, the steam was at half pressure; a thousand schemeswere tried to attract the attention and stimulate the apathy of theanimal in case it should be met in those parts.  Large quantities ofbacon were trailed in the wake of the ship, to the great satisfaction(I must say) of the sharks.  Small craft radiated in all directionsround the Abraham Lincoln as she lay to, and did not leave a spot ofthe sea unexplored.  But the night of the 4th of November arrivedwithout the unveiling of this submarine mystery.
The next day, the 5th of November, at twelve, the delay would (morallyspeaking) expire; after that time, Commander Farragut, faithful to hispromise, was to turn the course to the south-east and abandon for everthe northern regions of the Pacific.
The frigate was then in 31° 15' N. lat. and 136° 42' E. long.The coast of Japan still remained less than two hundred miles toleeward.  Night was approaching.  They had just struck eight bells;large clouds veiled the face of the moon, then in its first quarter.The sea undulated peaceably under the stern of the vessel.
At that moment I was leaning forward on the starboard netting.Conseil, standing near me, was looking straight before him.  The crew,perched in the ratlines, examined the horizon which contracted anddarkened by degrees.  Officers with their night glasses scoured thegrowing darkness:  sometimes the ocean sparkled under the rays of themoon, which darted between two clouds, then all trace of light was lostin the darkness.
In looking at Conseil, I could see he was undergoing a little of thegeneral influence.  At least I thought so.  Perhaps for the first timehis nerves vibrated to a sentiment of curiosity.
"Come, Conseil," said I, "this is the last chance of pocketing the twothousand dollars."
"May I be permitted to say, sir," replied Conseil, "that I neverreckoned on getting the prize; and, had the government of the Unionoffered a hundred thousand dollars, it would have been none the poorer."
"You are right, Conseil.  It is a foolish affair after all, and oneupon which we entered too lightly.  What time lost, what uselessemotions!  We should have been back in France six months ago."
"In your little room, sir," replied Conseil, "and in your museum, sir;and I should have already classed all your fossils, sir.  And theBabiroussa would have been installed in its cage in the Jardin desPlantes, and have drawn all the curious people of the capital!"
"As you say, Conseil.  I fancy we shall run a fair chance of beinglaughed at for our pains."
"That's tolerably certain," replied Conseil, quietly; "I think theywill make fun of you, sir.  And, must I say it----?"
"Go on, my good friend."
"Well, sir, you will only get your deserts."
"Indeed!"
"When one has the honour of being a _savant_ as you are, sir, one shouldnot expose one's self to----"
Conseil had not time to finish his compliment.  In the midst of generalsilence a voice had just been heard.  It was the voice of Ned Landshouting:
"Look out there!  The very thing we are looking for--on our weatherbeam!"


CHAPTER VI
AT FULL STEAM
At this cry the whole ship's crew hurried towards theharpooner--commander, officers, masters, sailors, cabin boys; even theengineers left their engines, and the stokers their furnaces.
The order to stop her had been given, and the frigate now simply wenton by her own momentum.  The darkness was then profound, and, howevergood the Canadian's eyes were, I asked myself how he had managed tosee, and what he had been able to see.  My heart beat as if it wouldbreak.  But Ned Land was not mistaken, and we all perceived the objecthe pointed to.  At two cables' length from the Abraham Lincoln, on thestarboard quarter, the sea seemed to be illuminated all over.  It wasnot a mere phosphoric phenomenon.  The monster emerged some fathomsfrom the water, and then threw out that very intense but mysteriouslight mentioned in the report of several captains.  This magnificentirradiation must have been produced by an agent of great SHINING power.The luminous part traced on the sea an immense oval, much elongated,the centre of which condensed a burning heat, whose overpoweringbrilliancy died out by successive gradations.
"It is only a massing of phosphoric particles," cried one of theofficers.
"No, sir, certainly not," I replied.  "That brightness is of anessentially electrical nature.  Besides, see, see! it moves; it ismoving forwards, backwards; it is darting towards us!"
A general cry arose from the frigate.
"Silence!" said the captain.  "Up with the helm, reverse the engines."
The steam was shut off, and the Abraham Lincoln, beating to port,described a semicircle.
"Right the helm, go ahead," cried the captain.
These orders were executed, and the frigate moved rapidly from theburning light.
I was mistaken.  She tried to sheer off, but the supernatural animalapproached with a velocity double her own.
We gasped for breath.  Stupefaction more than fear made us dumb andmotionless.  The animal gained on us, sporting with the waves.  It madethe round of the frigate, which was then making fourteen knots, andenveloped it with its electric rings like luminous dust.
Then it moved away two or three miles, leaving a phosphorescent track,like those volumes of steam that the express trains leave behind.  Allat once from the dark line of the horizon whither it retired to gainits momentum, the monster rushed suddenly towards the Abraham Lincolnwith alarming rapidity, stopped suddenly about twenty feet from thehull, and died out--not diving under the water, for its brilliancy didnot abate--but suddenly, and as if the source of this brilliantemanation was exhausted.  Then it reappeared on the other side of thevessel, as if it had turned and slid under the hull.  Any moment acollision might have occurred which would have been fatal to us.However, I was astonished at the manoeuvres of the frigate.  She fledand did not attack.
On the captain's face, generally so impassive, was an expression ofunaccountable astonishment.
"Mr. Aronnax," he said, "I do not know with what formidable being Ihave to deal, and I will not imprudently risk my frigate in the midstof this darkness.  Besides, how attack this unknown thing, how defendone's self from it?  Wait for daylight, and the scene will change."
"You have no further doubt, captain, of the nature of the animal?"
"No, sir; it is evidently a gigantic narwhal, and an electric one."
"Perhaps," added I, "one can only approach it with a torpedo."
"Undoubtedly," replied the captain, "if it possesses such dreadfulpower, it is the most terrible animal that ever was created.  That iswhy, sir, I must be on my guard."
The crew were on their feet all night.  No one thought of sleep.  TheAbraham Lincoln, not being able to struggle with such velocity, hadmoderated its pace, and sailed at half speed.  For its part, thenarwhal, imitating the frigate, let the waves rock it at will, andseemed decided not to leave the scene of the struggle.  Towardsmidnight, however, it disappeared, or, to use a more appropriate term,it "died out" like a large glow-worm. Had it fled?  One could onlyfear, not hope it.  But at seven minutes to one o'clock in the morninga deafening whistling was heard, like that produced by a body of waterrushing with great violence.
The captain, Ned Land, and I were then on the poop, eagerly peeringthrough the profound darkness.
"Ned Land," asked the commander, "you have often heard the roaring ofwhales?"
"Often, sir; but never such whales the sight of which brought me in twothousand dollars.  If I can only approach within four harpoons' lengthof it!"
"But to approach it," said the commander, "I ought to put a whaler atyour disposal?"
"Certainly, sir."
"That will be trifling with the lives of my men."
"And mine too," simply said the harpooner.
Towards two o'clock in the morning, the burning light reappeared, notless intense, about five miles to windward of the Abraham Lincoln.Notwithstanding the distance, and the noise of the wind and sea, oneheard distinctly the loud strokes of the animal's tail, and even itspanting breath.  It seemed that, at the moment that the enormousnarwhal had come to take breath at the surface of the water, the airwas engulfed in its lungs, like the steam in the vast cylinders of amachine of two thousand horse-power.
"Hum!" thought I, "a whale with the strength of a cavalry regimentwould be a pretty whale!"
We were on the qui vive till daylight, and prepared for the combat.The fishing implements were laid along the hammock nettings.  Thesecond lieutenant loaded the blunder busses, which could throw harpoonsto the distance of a mile, and long duck-guns, with explosive bullets,which inflicted mortal wounds even to the most terrible animals.  NedLand contented himself with sharpening his harpoon--a terrible weaponin his hands.
At six o'clock day began to break; and, with the first glimmer oflight, the electric light of the narwhal disappeared.  At seven o'clockthe day was sufficiently advanced, but a very thick sea fog obscuredour view, and the best spy glasses could not pierce it.  That causeddisappointment and anger.
I climbed the mizzen-mast. Some officers were already perched on themast-heads. At eight o'clock the fog lay heavily on the waves, and itsthick scrolls rose little by little.  The horizon grew wider andclearer at the same time.  Suddenly, just as on the day before, NedLand's voice was heard:
"The thing itself on the port quarter!" cried the harpooner.
Every eye was turned towards the point indicated.  There, a mile and ahalf from the frigate, a long blackish body emerged a yard above thewaves.  Its tail, violently agitated, produced a considerable eddy.Never did a tail beat the sea with such violence.  An immense track, ofdazzling whiteness, marked the passage of the animal, and described along curve.
The frigate approached the cetacean.  I examined it thoroughly.
The reports of the Shannon and of the Helvetia had rather exaggeratedits size, and I estimated its length at only two hundred and fiftyfeet.  As to its dimensions, I could only conjecture them to beadmirably proportioned.  While I watched this phenomenon, two jets ofsteam and water were ejected from its vents, and rose to the height of120 feet; thus I ascertained its way of breathing.  I concludeddefinitely that it belonged to the vertebrate branch, class mammalia.
The crew waited impatiently for their chief's orders.  The latter,after having observed the animal attentively, called the engineer.  Theengineer ran to him.
"Sir," said the commander, "you have steam up?"
"Yes, sir," answered the engineer.
"Well, make up your fires and put on all steam."
Three hurrahs greeted this order.  The time for the struggle hadarrived.  Some moments after, the two funnels of the frigate vomitedtorrents of black smoke, and the bridge quaked under the trembling ofthe boilers.
The Abraham Lincoln, propelled by her wonderful screw, went straight atthe animal.  The latter allowed it to come within half a cable'slength; then, as if disdaining to dive, it took a little turn, andstopped a short distance off.
This pursuit lasted nearly three-quarters of an hour, without thefrigate gaining two yards on the cetacean.  It was quite evident thatat that rate we should never come up with it.
"Well, Mr. Land," asked the captain, "do you advise me to put the boatsout to sea?"
"No, sir," replied Ned Land; "because we shall not take that beasteasily."
"What shall we do then?"
"Put on more steam if you can, sir.  With your leave, I mean to postmyself under the bowsprit, and, if we get within harpooning distance, Ishall throw my harpoon."
"Go, Ned," said the captain.  "Engineer, put on more pressure."
Ned Land went to his post.  The fires were increased, the screwrevolved forty-three times a minute, and the steam poured out of thevalves.  We heaved the log, and calculated that the Abraham Lincoln wasgoing at the rate of 18 1/2 miles an hour.
But the accursed animal swam at the same speed.
For a whole hour the frigate kept up this pace, without gaining sixfeet.  It was humiliating for one of the swiftest sailers in theAmerican navy.  A stubborn anger seized the crew; the sailors abusedthe monster, who, as before, disdained to answer them; the captain nolonger contented himself with twisting his beard--he gnawed it.
The engineer was called again.
"You have turned full steam on?"
"Yes, sir," replied the engineer.
The speed of the Abraham Lincoln increased.  Its masts trembled down totheir stepping holes, and the clouds of smoke could hardly find way outof the narrow funnels.
They heaved the log a second time.
"Well?" asked the captain of the man at the wheel.
"Nineteen miles and three-tenths, sir."
"Clap on more steam."
The engineer obeyed.  The manometer showed ten degrees.  But thecetacean grew warm itself, no doubt; for without straining itself, itmade 19 3/10 miles.
What a pursuit!  No, I cannot describe the emotion that vibratedthrough me.  Ned Land kept his post, harpoon in hand.  Several timesthe animal let us gain upon it.--"We shall catch it! we shall catchit!" cried the Canadian.  But just as he was going to strike, thecetacean stole away with a rapidity that could not be estimated at lessthan thirty miles an hour, and even during our maximum of speed, itbullied the frigate, going round and round it.  A cry of fury brokefrom everyone!
At noon we were no further advanced than at eight o'clock in themorning.
The captain then decided to take more direct means.
"Ah!" said he, "that animal goes quicker than the Abraham Lincoln.Very well! we will see whether it will escape these conical bullets.Send your men to the forecastle, sir."
The forecastle gun was immediately loaded and slewed round.  But theshot passed some feet above the cetacean, which was half a mile off.
"Another, more to the right," cried the commander, "and five dollars towhoever will hit that infernal beast."
An old gunner with a grey beard--that I can see now--with steady eyeand grave face, went up to the gun and took a long aim.  A loud reportwas heard, with which were mingled the cheers of the crew.
The bullet did its work; it hit the animal, and, sliding off therounded surface, was lost in two miles depth of sea.
The chase began again, and the captain, leaning towards me, said:
"I will pursue that beast till my frigate bursts up."
"Yes," answered I; "and you will be quite right to do it."
I wished the beast would exhaust itself, and not be insensible tofatigue like a steam engine.  But it was of no use.  Hours passed,without its showing any signs of exhaustion.
However, it must be said in praise of the Abraham Lincoln that shestruggled on indefatigably.  I cannot reckon the distance she madeunder three hundred miles during this unlucky day, November the 6th.But night came on, and overshadowed the rough ocean.
Now I thought our expedition was at an end, and that we should neveragain see the extraordinary animal.  I was mistaken.  At ten minutes toeleven in the evening, the electric light reappeared three miles towindward of the frigate, as pure, as intense as during the precedingnight.
The narwhal seemed motionless; perhaps, tired with its day's work, itslept, letting itself float with the undulation of the waves.  Now wasa chance of which the captain resolved to take advantage.
He gave his orders.  The Abraham Lincoln kept up half steam, andadvanced cautiously so as not to awake its adversary.  It is no rarething to meet in the middle of the ocean whales so sound asleep thatthey can be successfully attacked, and Ned Land had harpooned more thanone during its sleep.  The Canadian went to take his place again underthe bowsprit.
The frigate approached noiselessly, stopped at two cables' lengths fromthe animal, and following its track.  No one breathed; a deep silencereigned on the bridge.  We were not a hundred feet from the burningfocus, the light of which increased and dazzled our eyes.
At this moment, leaning on the forecastle bulwark, I saw below me NedLand grappling the martingale in one hand, brandishing his terribleharpoon in the other, scarcely twenty feet from the motionless animal.Suddenly his arm straightened, and the harpoon was thrown; I heard thesonorous stroke of the weapon, which seemed to have struck a hard body.The electric light went out suddenly, and two enormous waterspoutsbroke over the bridge of the frigate, rushing like a torrent from stemto stern, overthrowing men, and breaking the lashings of the spars.  Afearful shock followed, and, thrown over the rail without having timeto stop myself, I fell into the sea.


CHAPTER VII
AN UNKNOWN SPECIES OF WHALE
This unexpected fall so stunned me that I have no clear recollection ofmy sensations at the time.  I was at first drawn down to a depth ofabout twenty feet.  I am a good swimmer (though without pretending torival Byron or Edgar Poe, who were masters of the art), and in thatplunge I did not lose my presence of mind.  Two vigorous strokesbrought me to the surface of the water.  My first care was to look forthe frigate.  Had the crew seen me disappear?  Had the Abraham Lincolnveered round?  Would the captain put out a boat?  Might I hope to besaved?
The darkness was intense.  I caught a glimpse of a black massdisappearing in the east, its beacon lights dying out in the distance.It was the frigate!  I was lost.
"Help, help!"  I shouted, swimming towards the Abraham Lincoln indesperation.
My clothes encumbered me; they seemed glued to my body, and paralysedmy movements.
I was sinking!  I was suffocating!
"Help!"
This was my last cry.  My mouth filled with water; I struggled againstbeing drawn down the abyss.  Suddenly my clothes were seized by astrong hand, and I felt myself quickly drawn up to the surface of thesea; and I heard, yes, I heard these words pronounced in my ear:
"If master would be so good as to lean on my shoulder, master wouldswim with much greater ease."
I seized with one hand my faithful Conseil's arm.
"Is it you?" said I, "you?"
"Myself," answered Conseil; "and waiting master's orders."
"That shock threw you as well as me into the sea?"
"No; but, being in my master's service, I followed him."
The worthy fellow thought that was but natural.
"And the frigate?"  I asked.
"The frigate?" replied Conseil, turning on his back; "I think thatmaster had better not count too much on her."
"You think so?"
"I say that, at the time I threw myself into the sea, I heard the menat the wheel say, `The screw and the rudder are broken.'
"Broken?"
"Yes, broken by the monster's teeth.  It is the only injury the AbrahamLincoln has sustained.  But it is a bad look-out for us--she no longeranswers her helm."
"Then we are lost!"
"Perhaps so," calmly answered Conseil.  "However, we have still severalhours before us, and one can do a good deal in some hours."
Conseil's imperturbable coolness set me up again.  I swam morevigorously; but, cramped by my clothes, which stuck to me like a leadenweight, I felt great difficulty in bearing up.  Conseil saw this.
"Will master let me make a slit?" said he; and, slipping an open knifeunder my clothes, he ripped them up from top to bottom very rapidly.Then he cleverly slipped them off me, while I swam for both of us.
Then I did the same for Conseil, and we continued to swim near to eachother.
Nevertheless, our situation was no less terrible.  Perhaps ourdisappearance had not been noticed; and, if it had been, the frigatecould not tack, being without its helm.  Conseil argued on thissupposition, and laid his plans accordingly.  This quiet boy wasperfectly self-possessed. We then decided that, as our only chance ofsafety was being picked up by the Abraham Lincoln's boats, we ought tomanage so as to wait for them as long as possible.  I resolved then tohusband our strength, so that both should not be exhausted at the sametime; and this is how we managed:  while one of us lay on our back,quite still, with arms crossed, and legs stretched out, the other wouldswim and push the other on in front.  This towing business did not lastmore than ten minutes each; and relieving each other thus, we couldswim on for some hours, perhaps till day-break. Poor chance! but hopeis so firmly rooted in the heart of man!  Moreover, there were two ofus.  Indeed I declare (though it may seem improbable) if I sought todestroy all hope--if I wished to despair, I could not.
The collision of the frigate with the cetacean had occurred abouteleven o'clock in the evening before.  I reckoned then we should haveeight hours to swim before sunrise, an operation quite practicable ifwe relieved each other.  The sea, very calm, was in our favour.Sometimes I tried to pierce the intense darkness that was onlydispelled by the phosphorescence caused by our movements.  I watchedthe luminous waves that broke over my hand, whose mirror-like surfacewas spotted with silvery rings.  One might have said that we were in abath of quicksilver.
Near one o'clock in the morning, I was seized with dreadful fatigue.My limbs stiffened under the strain of violent cramp.  Conseil wasobliged to keep me up, and our preservation devolved on him alone.  Iheard the poor boy pant; his breathing became short and hurried.  Ifound that he could not keep up much longer.
"Leave me! leave me!"  I said to him.
"Leave my master?  Never!" replied he.  "I would drown first."
Just then the moon appeared through the fringes of a thick cloud thatthe wind was driving to the east.  The surface of the sea glitteredwith its rays.  This kindly light reanimated us.  My head got betteragain.  I looked at all points of the horizon.  I saw the frigate!  Shewas five miles from us, and looked like a dark mass, hardlydiscernible.  But no boats!
I would have cried out.  But what good would it have been at such adistance!  My swollen lips could utter no sounds.  Conseil couldarticulate some words, and I heard him repeat at intervals, "Help!help!"
Our movements were suspended for an instant; we listened.  It might beonly a singing in the ear, but it seemed to me as if a cry answered thecry from Conseil.
"Did you hear?"  I murmured.
"Yes!  Yes!"
And Conseil gave one more despairing cry.
This time there was no mistake!  A human voice responded to ours!  Wasit the voice of another unfortunate creature, abandoned in the middleof the ocean, some other victim of the shock sustained by the vessel?Or rather was it a boat from the frigate, that was hailing us in thedarkness?
Conseil made a last effort, and, leaning on my shoulder, while I struckout in a desperate effort, he raised himself half out of the water,then fell back exhausted.
"What did you see?"
"I saw----" murmured he; "I saw--but do not talk--reserve all yourstrength!"
What had he seen?  Then, I know not why, the thought of the monstercame into my head for the first time!  But that voice!  The time ispast for Jonahs to take refuge in whales' bellies!  However, Conseilwas towing me again.  He raised his head sometimes, looked before us,and uttered a cry of recognition, which was responded to by a voicethat came nearer and nearer.  I scarcely heard it.  My strength wasexhausted; my fingers stiffened; my hand afforded me support no longer;my mouth, convulsively opening, filled with salt water.  Cold creptover me.  I raised my head for the last time, then I sank.
At this moment a hard body struck me.  I clung to it: then I felt thatI was being drawn up, that I was brought to the surface of the water,that my chest collapsed--I fainted.
It is certain that I soon came to, thanks to the vigorous rubbings thatI received.  I half opened my eyes.
"Conseil!"  I murmured.
"Does master call me?" asked Conseil.
Just then, by the waning light of the moon which was sinking down tothe horizon, I saw a face which was not Conseil's and which Iimmediately recognised.
"Ned!"  I cried.
"The same, sir, who is seeking his prize!" replied the Canadian.
"Were you thrown into the sea by the shock to the frigate?"
"Yes, Professor; but more fortunate than you, I was able to find afooting almost directly upon a floating island."
"An island?"
"Or, more correctly speaking, on our gigantic narwhal."
"Explain yourself, Ned!"
"Only I soon found out why my harpoon had not entered its skin and wasblunted."
"Why, Ned, why?"
"Because, Professor, that beast is made of sheet iron."
The Canadian's last words produced a sudden revolution in my brain.  Iwriggled myself quickly to the top of the being, or object, half out ofthe water, which served us for a refuge.  I kicked it.  It wasevidently a hard, impenetrable body, and not the soft substance thatforms the bodies of the great marine mammalia.  But this hard bodymight be a bony covering, like that of the antediluvian animals; and Ishould be free to class this monster among amphibious reptiles, such astortoises or alligators.
Well, no! the blackish back that supported me was smooth, polished,without scales.  The blow produced a metallic sound; and, incrediblethough it may be, it seemed, I might say, as if it was made of rivetedplates.
There was no doubt about it!  This monster, this natural phenomenonthat had puzzled the learned world, and over thrown and misled theimagination of seamen of both hemispheres, it must be owned was a stillmore astonishing phenomenon, inasmuch as it was a simply humanconstruction.
We had no time to lose, however.  We were lying upon the back of a sortof submarine boat, which appeared (as far as I could judge) like a hugefish of steel.  Ned Land's mind was made up on this point.  Conseil andI could only agree with him.
Just then a bubbling began at the back of this strange thing (which wasevidently propelled by a screw), and it began to move.  We had onlyjust time to seize hold of the upper part, which rose about seven feetout of the water, and happily its speed was not great.
"As long as it sails horizontally," muttered Ned Land, "I do not mind;but, if it takes a fancy to dive, I would not give two straws for mylife."
The Canadian might have said still less.  It became really necessary tocommunicate with the beings, whatever they were, shut up inside themachine.  I searched all over the outside for an aperture, a panel, ora manhole, to use a technical expression; but the lines of the ironrivets, solidly driven into the joints of the iron plates, were clearand uniform.  Besides, the moon disappeared then, and left us in totaldarkness.
At last this long night passed.  My indistinct remembrance prevents mydescribing all the impressions it made.  I can only recall onecircumstance.  During some lulls of the wind and sea, I fancied I heardseveral times vague sounds, a sort of fugitive harmony produced bywords of command.  What was, then, the mystery of this submarine craft,of which the whole world vainly sought an explanation?  What kind ofbeings existed in this strange boat?  What mechanical agent caused itsprodigious speed?
Daybreak appeared.  The morning mists surrounded us, but they sooncleared off.  I was about to examine the hull, which formed on deck akind of horizontal platform, when I felt it gradually sinking.
"Oh! confound it!" cried Ned Land, kicking the resounding plate."Open, you inhospitable rascals!"
Happily the sinking movement ceased.  Suddenly a noise, like iron worksviolently pushed aside, came from the interior of the boat.  One ironplate was moved, a man appeared, uttered an odd cry, and disappearedimmediately.
Some moments after, eight strong men, with masked faces, appearednoiselessly, and drew us down into their formidable machine.


CHAPTER VIII
MOBILIS IN MOBILI
This forcible abduction, so roughly carried out, was accomplished withthe rapidity of lightning.  I shivered all over.  Whom had we to dealwith?  No doubt some new sort of pirates, who explored the sea in theirown way.  Hardly had the narrow panel closed upon me, when I wasenveloped in darkness.  My eyes, dazzled with the outer light, coulddistinguish nothing.  I felt my naked feet cling to the rungs of aniron ladder.  Ned Land and Conseil, firmly seized, followed me.  At thebottom of the ladder, a door opened, and shut after us immediately witha bang.
We were alone.  Where, I could not say, hardly imagine.  All was black,and such a dense black that, after some minutes, my eyes had not beenable to discern even the faintest glimmer.
Meanwhile, Ned Land, furious at these proceedings, gave free vent tohis indignation.
"Confound it!" cried he, "here are people who come up to the Scotch forhospitality.  They only just miss being cannibals.  I should not besurprised at it, but I declare that they shall not eat me without myprotesting."
"Calm yourself, friend Ned, calm yourself," replied Conseil, quietly."Do not cry out before you are hurt.  We are not quite done for yet."
"Not quite," sharply replied the Canadian, "but pretty near, at allevents.  Things look black.  Happily, my bowie knife I have still, andI can always see well enough to use it.  The first of these pirates wholays a hand on me----"
"Do not excite yourself, Ned," I said to the harpooner, "and do notcompromise us by useless violence.  Who knows that they will not listento us?  Let us rather try to find out where we are."
I groped about.  In five steps I came to an iron wall, made of platesbolted together.  Then turning back I struck against a wooden table,near which were ranged several stools.  The boards of this prison wereconcealed under a thick mat, which deadened the noise of the feet.  Thebare walls revealed no trace of window or door.  Conseil, going roundthe reverse way, met me, and we went back to the middle of the cabin,which measured about twenty feet by ten.  As to its height, Ned Land,in spite of his own great height, could not measure it.
Half an hour had already passed without our situation being bettered,when the dense darkness suddenly gave way to extreme light.  Our prisonwas suddenly lighted, that is to say, it became filled with a luminousmatter, so strong that I could not bear it at first.  In its whitenessand intensity I recognised that electric light which played round thesubmarine boat like a magnificent phenomenon of phosphorescence.  Aftershutting my eyes involuntarily, I opened them, and saw that thisluminous agent came from a half globe, unpolished, placed in the roofof the cabin.
"At last one can see," cried Ned Land, who, knife in hand, stood on thedefensive.
"Yes," said I; "but we are still in the dark about ourselves."
"Let master have patience," said the imperturbable Conseil.
The sudden lighting of the cabin enabled me to examine it minutely.  Itonly contained a table and five stools.  The invisible door might behermetically sealed.  No noise was heard.  All seemed dead in theinterior of this boat.  Did it move, did it float on the surface of theocean, or did it dive into its depths?  I could not guess.
A noise of bolts was now heard, the door opened, and two men appeared.
One was short, very muscular, broad-shouldered, with robust limbs,strong head, an abundance of black hair, thick moustache, a quickpenetrating look, and the vivacity which characterises the populationof Southern France.
The second stranger merits a more detailed description.  I made out hisprevailing qualities directly:  self-confidence--because his head waswell set on his shoulders, and his black eyes looked around with coldassurance; calmness--for his skin, rather pale, showed his coolness ofblood; energy--evinced by the rapid contraction of his lofty brows; andcourage--because his deep breathing denoted great power of lungs.
Whether this person was thirty-five or fifty years of age, I could notsay.  He was tall, had a large forehead, straight nose, a clearly cutmouth, beautiful teeth, with fine taper hands, indicative of a highlynervous temperament.  This man was certainly the most admirablespecimen I had ever met.  One particular feature was his eyes, ratherfar from each other, and which could take in nearly a quarter of thehorizon at once.
This faculty--(I verified it later)--gave him a range of vision farsuperior to Ned Land's. When this stranger fixed upon an object, hiseyebrows met, his large eyelids closed around so as to contract therange of his vision, and he looked as if he magnified the objectslessened by distance, as if he pierced those sheets of water so opaqueto our eyes, and as if he read the very depths of the seas.
The two strangers, with caps made from the fur of the sea otter, andshod with sea boots of seal's skin, were dressed in clothes of aparticular texture, which allowed free movement of the limbs.  Thetaller of the two, evidently the chief on board, examined us with greatattention, without saying a word; then, turning to his companion,talked with him in an unknown tongue.  It was a sonorous, harmonious,and flexible dialect, the vowels seeming to admit of very variedaccentuation.
The other replied by a shake of the head, and added two or threeperfectly incomprehensible words.  Then he seemed to question me by alook.
I replied in good French that I did not know his language; but heseemed not to understand me, and my situation became more embarrassing.
"If master were to tell our story," said Conseil, "perhaps thesegentlemen may understand some words."
I began to tell our adventures, articulating each syllable clearly, andwithout omitting one single detail.  I announced our names and rank,introducing in person Professor Aronnax, his servant Conseil, andmaster Ned Land, the harpooner.
The man with the soft calm eyes listened to me quietly, even politely,and with extreme attention; but nothing in his countenance indicatedthat he had understood my story.  When I finished, he said not a word.
There remained one resource, to speak English.  Perhaps they would knowthis almost universal language.  I knew it--as well as the Germanlanguage--well enough to read it fluently, but not to speak itcorrectly.  But, anyhow, we must make ourselves understood.
"Go on in your turn," I said to the harpooner; "speak your bestAnglo-Saxon, and try to do better than I."
Ned did not beg off, and recommenced our story.
To his great disgust, the harpooner did not seem to have made himselfmore intelligible than I had.  Our visitors did not stir.  Theyevidently understood neither the language of England nor of France.
Very much embarrassed, after having vainly exhausted our speakingresources, I knew not what part to take, when Conseil said:
"If master will permit me, I will relate it in German."
But in spite of the elegant terms and good accent of the narrator, theGerman language had no success.  At last, nonplussed, I tried toremember my first lessons, and to narrate our adventures in Latin, butwith no better success.  This last attempt being of no avail, the twostrangers exchanged some words in their unknown language, and retired.
The door shut.
"It is an infamous shame," cried Ned Land, who broke out for thetwentieth time.  "We speak to those rogues in French, English, German,and Latin, and not one of them has the politeness to answer!"
"Calm yourself," I said to the impetuous Ned; "anger will do no good."
"But do you see, Professor," replied our irascible companion, "that weshall absolutely die of hunger in this iron cage?"
"Bah!" said Conseil, philosophically; "we can hold out some time yet."
"My friends," I said, "we must not despair.  We have been worse offthan this.  Do me the favour to wait a little before forming an opinionupon the commander and crew of this boat."
"My opinion is formed," replied Ned Land, sharply.  "They are rascals."
"Good! and from what country?"
"From the land of rogues!"
"My brave Ned, that country is not clearly indicated on the map of theworld; but I admit that the nationality of the two strangers is hard todetermine.  Neither English, French, nor German, that is quite certain.However, I am inclined to think that the commander and his companionwere born in low latitudes.  There is southern blood in them.  But Icannot decide by their appearance whether they are Spaniards, Turks,Arabians, or Indians.  As to their language, it is quiteincomprehensible."
"There is the disadvantage of not knowing all languages," said Conseil,"or the disadvantage of not having one universal language."
As he said these words, the door opened.  A steward entered.  Hebrought us clothes, coats and trousers, made of a stuff I did not know.I hastened to dress myself, and my companions followed my example.During that time, the steward--dumb, perhaps deaf--had arranged thetable, and laid three plates.
"This is something like!" said Conseil.
"Bah!" said the angry harpooner, "what do you suppose they eat here?Tortoise liver, filleted shark, and beef steaks from seadogs."
"We shall see," said Conseil.
The dishes, of bell metal, were placed on the table, and we took ourplaces.  Undoubtedly we had to do with civilised people, and, had itnot been for the electric light which flooded us, I could have fanciedI was in the dining-room of the Adelphi Hotel at Liverpool, or at theGrand Hotel in Paris.  I must say, however, that there was neitherbread nor wine.  The water was fresh and clear, but it was water anddid not suit Ned Land's taste.  Amongst the dishes which were broughtto us, I recognised several fish delicately dressed; but of some,although excellent, I could give no opinion, neither could I tell towhat kingdom they belonged, whether animal or vegetable.  As to thedinner-service, it was elegant, and in perfect taste.  Eachutensil--spoon, fork, knife, plate--had a letter engraved on it, with amotto above it, of which this is an exact facsimile:

MOBILIS IN MOBILI N
The letter N was no doubt the initial of the name of the enigmaticalperson who commanded at the bottom of the seas.
Ned and Conseil did not reflect much.  They devoured the food, and Idid likewise.  I was, besides, reassured as to our fate; and it seemedevident that our hosts would not let us die of want.
However, everything has an end, everything passes away, even the hungerof people who have not eaten for fifteen hours.  Our appetitessatisfied, we felt overcome with sleep.
"Faith!  I shall sleep well," said Conseil.
"So shall I," replied Ned Land.
My two companions stretched themselves on the cabin carpet, and weresoon sound asleep.  For my own part, too many thoughts crowded mybrain, too many insoluble questions pressed upon me, too many fancieskept my eyes half open.  Where were we?  What strange power carried uson?  I felt--or rather fancied I felt--the machine sinking down to thelowest beds of the sea.  Dreadful nightmares beset me; I saw in thesemysterious asylums a world of unknown animals, amongst which thissubmarine boat seemed to be of the same kind, living, moving, andformidable as they.  Then my brain grew calmer, my imagination wanderedinto vague unconsciousness, and I soon fell into a deep sleep.


CHAPTER IX
NED LAND'S TEMPERS
How long we slept I do not know; but our sleep must have lasted long,for it rested us completely from our fatigues.  I woke first.  Mycompanions had not moved, and were still stretched in their corner.
Hardly roused from my somewhat hard couch, I felt my brain freed, mymind clear.  I then began an attentive examination of our cell.Nothing was changed inside.  The prison was still a prison--theprisoners, prisoners.  However, the steward, during our sleep, hadcleared the table.  I breathed with difficulty.  The heavy air seemedto oppress my lungs.  Although the cell was large, we had evidentlyconsumed a great part of the oxygen that it contained.  Indeed, eachman consumes, in one hour, the oxygen contained in more than 176 pintsof air, and this air, charged (as then) with a nearly equal quantity ofcarbonic acid, becomes unbreathable.
It became necessary to renew the atmosphere of our prison, and no doubtthe whole in the submarine boat.  That gave rise to a question in mymind.  How would the commander of this floating dwelling-place proceed?Would he obtain air by chemical means, in getting by heat the oxygencontained in chlorate of potash, and in absorbing carbonic acid bycaustic potash?  Or--a more convenient, economical, and consequentlymore probable alternative--would he be satisfied to rise and takebreath at the surface of the water, like a whale, and so renew fortwenty-four hours the atmospheric provision?
In fact, I was already obliged to increase my respirations to eke outof this cell the little oxygen it contained, when suddenly I wasrefreshed by a current of pure air, and perfumed with salineemanations.  It was an invigorating sea breeze, charged with iodine.  Iopened my mouth wide, and my lungs saturated themselves with freshparticles.
At the same time I felt the boat rolling.  The iron-plated monster hadevidently just risen to the surface of the ocean to breathe, after thefashion of whales.  I found out from that the mode of ventilating theboat.
When I had inhaled this air freely, I sought the conduit pipe, whichconveyed to us the beneficial whiff, and I was not long in finding it.Above the door was a ventilator, through which volumes of fresh airrenewed the impoverished atmosphere of the cell.
I was making my observations, when Ned and Conseil awoke almost at thesame time, under the influence of this reviving air.  They rubbed theireyes, stretched themselves, and were on their feet in an instant.
"Did master sleep well?" asked Conseil, with his usual politeness.
"Very well, my brave boy.  And you, Mr. Land?"
"Soundly, Professor.  But, I don't know if I am right or not, thereseems to be a sea breeze!"
A seaman could not be mistaken, and I told the Canadian all that hadpassed during his sleep.
"Good!" said he.  "That accounts for those roarings we heard, when thesupposed narwhal sighted the Abraham Lincoln."
"Quite so, Master Land; it was taking breath."
"Only, Mr. Aronnax, I have no idea what o'clock it is, unless it isdinner-time."
"Dinner-time! my good fellow?  Say rather breakfast-time, for wecertainly have begun another day."
"So," said Conseil, "we have slept twenty-four hours?"
"That is my opinion."
"I will not contradict you," replied Ned Land.  "But, dinner orbreakfast, the steward will be welcome, whichever he brings."
"Master Land, we must conform to the rules on board, and I suppose ourappetites are in advance of the dinner hour."
"That is just like you, friend Conseil," said Ned, impatiently.  "Youare never out of temper, always calm; you would return thanks beforegrace, and die of hunger rather than complain!"
Time was getting on, and we were fearfully hungry; and this time thesteward did not appear.  It was rather too long to leave us, if theyreally had good intentions towards us.  Ned Land, tormented by thecravings of hunger, got still more angry; and, notwithstanding hispromise, I dreaded an explosion when he found himself with one of thecrew.
For two hours more Ned Land's temper increased; he cried, he shouted,but in vain.  The walls were deaf.  There was no sound to be heard inthe boat; all was still as death.  It did not move, for I should havefelt the trembling motion of the hull under the influence of the screw.Plunged in the depths of the waters, it belonged no longer to earth:this silence was dreadful.
I felt terrified, Conseil was calm, Ned Land roared.
Just then a noise was heard outside.  Steps sounded on the metal flags.The locks were turned, the door opened, and the steward appeared.
Before I could rush forward to stop him, the Canadian had thrown himdown, and held him by the throat.  The steward was choking under thegrip of his powerful hand.
Conseil was already trying to unclasp the harpooner's hand from hishalf-suffocated victim, and I was going to fly to the rescue, whensuddenly I was nailed to the spot by hearing these words in French:
"Be quiet, Master Land; and you, Professor, will you be so good as tolisten to me?"


CHAPTER X
THE MAN OF THE SEAS
It was the commander of the vessel who thus spoke.
At these words, Ned Land rose suddenly.  The steward, nearly strangled,tottered out on a sign from his master.  But such was the power of thecommander on board, that not a gesture betrayed the resentment whichthis man must have felt towards the Canadian.  Conseil interested inspite of himself, I stupefied, awaited in silence the result of thisscene.
The commander, leaning against the corner of a table with his armsfolded, scanned us with profound attention.  Did he hesitate to speak?Did he regret the words which he had just spoken in French?  One mightalmost think so.
After some moments of silence, which not one of us dreamed of breaking,"Gentlemen," said he, in a calm and penetrating voice, "I speak French,English, German, and Latin equally well.  I could, therefore, haveanswered you at our first interview, but I wished to know you first,then to reflect.  The story told by each one, entirely agreeing in themain points, convinced me of your identity.  I know now that chance hasbrought before me M. Pierre Aronnax, Professor of Natural History atthe Museum of Paris, entrusted with a scientific mission abroad,Conseil, his servant, and Ned Land, of Canadian origin, harpooner onboard the frigate Abraham Lincoln of the navy of the United States ofAmerica."
I bowed assent.  It was not a question that the commander put to me.Therefore there was no answer to be made.  This man expressed himselfwith perfect ease, without any accent.  His sentences were well turned,his words clear, and his fluency of speech remarkable.  Yet, I did notrecognise in him a fellow-countryman.
He continued the conversation in these terms:
"You have doubtless thought, sir, that I have delayed long in payingyou this second visit.  The reason is that, your identity recognised, Iwished to weigh maturely what part to act towards you.  I havehesitated much.  Most annoying circumstances have brought you into thepresence of a man who has broken all the ties of humanity.  You havecome to trouble my existence."
"Unintentionally!" said I.
"Unintentionally?" replied the stranger, raising his voice a little."Was it unintentionally that the Abraham Lincoln pursued me all overthe seas?  Was it unintentionally that you took passage in thisfrigate?  Was it unintentionally that your cannon-balls rebounded offthe plating of my vessel?  Was it unintentionally that Mr. Ned Landstruck me with his harpoon?"
I detected a restrained irritation in these words.  But to theserecriminations I had a very natural answer to make, and I made it.
"Sir," said I, "no doubt you are ignorant of the discussions which havetaken place concerning you in America and Europe.  You do not know thatdivers accidents, caused by collisions with your submarine machine,have excited public feeling in the two continents.  I omit the theorieswithout number by which it was sought to explain that of which youalone possess the secret.  But you must understand that, in pursuingyou over the high seas of the Pacific, the Abraham Lincoln believeditself to be chasing some powerful sea-monster, of which it wasnecessary to rid the ocean at any price."
A half-smile curled the lips of the commander:  then, in a calmer tone:
"M. Aronnax," he replied, "dare you affirm that your frigate would notas soon have pursued and cannonaded a submarine boat as a monster?"
This question embarrassed me, for certainly Captain Farragut might nothave hesitated.  He might have thought it his duty to destroy acontrivance of this kind, as he would a gigantic narwhal.
"You understand then, sir," continued the stranger, "that I have theright to treat you as enemies?"
I answered nothing, purposely.  For what good would it be to discusssuch a proposition, when force could destroy the best arguments?
"I have hesitated some time," continued the commander; "nothing obligedme to show you hospitality.  If I chose to separate myself from you, Ishould have no interest in seeing you again; I could place you upon thedeck of this vessel which has served you as a refuge, I could sinkbeneath the waters, and forget that you had ever existed.  Would notthat be my right?"
"It might be the right of a savage," I answered, "but not that of acivilised man."
"Professor," replied the commander, quickly, "I am not what you call acivilised man!  I have done with society entirely, for reasons which Ialone have the right of appreciating.  I do not, therefore, obey itslaws, and I desire you never to allude to them before me again!"
This was said plainly.  A flash of anger and disdain kindled in theeyes of the Unknown, and I had a glimpse of a terrible past in the lifeof this man.  Not only had he put himself beyond the pale of humanlaws, but he had made himself independent of them, free in thestrictest acceptation of the word, quite beyond their reach!  Who thenwould dare to pursue him at the bottom of the sea, when, on itssurface, he defied all attempts made against him?
What vessel could resist the shock of his submarine monitor?  Whatcuirass, however thick, could withstand the blows of his spur?  No mancould demand from him an account of his actions; God, if he believed inone--his conscience, if he had one--were the sole judges to whom he wasanswerable.
These reflections crossed my mind rapidly, whilst the strangerpersonage was silent, absorbed, and as if wrapped up in himself.  Iregarded him with fear mingled with interest, as, doubtless, OEdiphusregarded the Sphinx.
After rather a long silence, the commander resumed the conversation.
"I have hesitated," said he, "but I have thought that my interest mightbe reconciled with that pity to which every human being has a right.You will remain on board my vessel, since fate has cast you there.  Youwill be free; and, in exchange for this liberty, I shall only imposeone single condition.  Your word of honour to submit to it willsuffice."
"Speak, sir," I answered.  "I suppose this condition is one which a manof honour may accept?"
"Yes, sir; it is this:  It is possible that certain events, unforeseen,may oblige me to consign you to your cabins for some hours or somedays, as the case may be.  As I desire never to use violence, I expectfrom you, more than all the others, a passive obedience.  In thusacting, I take all the responsibility:  I acquit you entirely, for Imake it an impossibility for you to see what ought not to be seen.  Doyou accept this condition?"
Then things took place on board which, to say the least, were singular,and which ought not to be seen by people who were not placed beyond thepale of social laws.  Amongst the surprises which the future waspreparing for me, this might not be the least.
"We accept," I answered; "only I will ask your permission, sir, toaddress one question to you--one only."
"Speak, sir."
"You said that we should be free on board."
"Entirely."
"I ask you, then, what you mean by this liberty?"
"Just the liberty to go, to come, to see, to observe even all thatpasses here save under rare circumstances--the liberty, in short, whichwe enjoy ourselves, my companions and I."
It was evident that we did not understand one another.
"Pardon me, sir," I resumed, "but this liberty is only what everyprisoner has of pacing his prison.  It cannot suffice us."
"It must suffice you, however."
"What! we must renounce for ever seeing our country, our friends, ourrelations again?"
"Yes, sir.  But to renounce that unendurable worldly yoke which menbelieve to be liberty is not perhaps so painful as you think."
"Well," exclaimed Ned Land, "never will I give my word of honour not totry to escape."
"I did not ask you for your word of honour, Master Land," answered thecommander, coldly.
"Sir," I replied, beginning to get angry in spite of my self, "youabuse your situation towards us; it is cruelty."
"No, sir, it is clemency.  You are my prisoners of war.  I keep you,when I could, by a word, plunge you into the depths of the ocean.  Youattacked me.  You came to surprise a secret which no man in the worldmust penetrate--the secret of my whole existence.  And you think that Iam going to send you back to that world which must know me no more?Never!  In retaining you, it is not you whom I guard--it is myself."
These words indicated a resolution taken on the part of the commander,against which no arguments would prevail.
"So, sir," I rejoined, "you give us simply the choice between life anddeath?"
"Simply."
"My friends," said I, "to a question thus put, there is nothing toanswer.  But no word of honour binds us to the master of this vessel."
"None, sir," answered the Unknown.
Then, in a gentler tone, he continued:
"Now, permit me to finish what I have to say to you.  I know you, M.Aronnax.  You and your companions will not, perhaps, have so much tocomplain of in the chance which has bound you to my fate.  You willfind amongst the books which are my favourite study the work which youhave published on `the depths of the sea.'  I have often read it.  Youhave carried out your work as far as terrestrial science permitted you.But you do not know all--you have not seen all.  Let me tell you then,Professor, that you will not regret the time passed on board my vessel.You are going to visit the land of marvels."
These words of the commander had a great effect upon me.  I cannot denyit.  My weak point was touched; and I forgot, for a moment, that thecontemplation of these sublime subjects was not worth the loss ofliberty.  Besides, I trusted to the future to decide this gravequestion.  So I contented myself with saying:
"By what name ought I to address you?"
"Sir," replied the commander, "I am nothing to you but Captain Nemo;and you and your companions are nothing to me but the passengers of theNautilus."
Captain Nemo called.  A steward appeared.  The captain gave him hisorders in that strange language which I did not understand.  Then,turning towards the Canadian and Conseil:
"A repast awaits you in your cabin," said he.  "Be so good as to followthis man.
"And now, M. Aronnax, our breakfast is ready.  Permit me to lead theway."
"I am at your service, Captain."
I followed Captain Nemo; and as soon as I had passed through the door,I found myself in a kind of passage lighted by electricity, similar tothe waist of a ship.  After we had proceeded a dozen yards, a seconddoor opened before me.
I then entered a dining-room, decorated and furnished in severe taste.High oaken sideboards, inlaid with ebony, stood at the two extremitiesof the room, and upon their shelves glittered china, porcelain, andglass of inestimable value.  The plate on the table sparkled in therays which the luminous ceiling shed around, while the light wastempered and softened by exquisite paintings.
In the centre of the room was a table richly laid out.  Captain Nemoindicated the place I was to occupy.
The breakfast consisted of a certain number of dishes, the contents ofwhich were furnished by the sea alone; and I was ignorant of the natureand mode of preparation of some of them.  I acknowledged that they weregood, but they had a peculiar flavour, which I easily became accustomedto.  These different aliments appeared to me to be rich in phosphorus,and I thought they must have a marine origin.
Captain Nemo looked at me.  I asked him no questions, but he guessed mythoughts, and answered of his own accord the questions which I wasburning to address to him.
"The greater part of these dishes are unknown to you," he said to me."However, you may partake of them without fear.  They are wholesome andnourishing.  For a long time I have renounced the food of the earth,and I am never ill now.  My crew, who are healthy, are fed on the samefood."
"So," said I, "all these eatables are the produce of the sea?"
"Yes, Professor, the sea supplies all my wants.  Sometimes I cast mynets in tow, and I draw them in ready to break.  Sometimes I hunt inthe midst of this element, which appears to be inaccessible to man, andquarry the game which dwells in my submarine forests.  My flocks, likethose of Neptune's old shepherds, graze fearlessly in the immenseprairies of the ocean.  I have a vast property there, which I cultivatemyself, and which is always sown by the hand of the Creator of allthings."
"I can understand perfectly, sir, that your nets furnish excellent fishfor your table; I can understand also that you hunt aquatic game inyour submarine forests; but I cannot understand at all how a particleof meat, no matter how small, can figure in your bill of fare."
"This, which you believe to be meat, Professor, is nothing else thanfillet of turtle.  Here are also some dolphins' livers, which you taketo be ragout of pork.  My cook is a clever fellow, who excels indressing these various products of the ocean.  Taste all these dishes.Here is a preserve of sea-cucumber, which a Malay would declare to beunrivalled in the world; here is a cream, of which the milk has beenfurnished by the cetacea, and the sugar by the great fucus of the NorthSea; and, lastly, permit me to offer you some preserve of anemones,which is equal to that of the most delicious fruits."
I tasted, more from curiosity than as a connoisseur, whilst CaptainNemo enchanted me with his extraordinary stories.
"You like the sea, Captain?"
"Yes; I love it!  The sea is everything.  It covers seven tenths of theterrestrial globe.  Its breath is pure and healthy.  It is an immensedesert, where man is never lonely, for he feels life stirring on allsides.  The sea is only the embodiment of a supernatural and wonderfulexistence.  It is nothing but love and emotion; it is the `LivingInfinite,' as one of your poets has said.  In fact, Professor, Naturemanifests herself in it by her three kingdoms--mineral, vegetable, andanimal.  The sea is the vast reservoir of Nature.  The globe began withsea, so to speak; and who knows if it will not end with it?  In it issupreme tranquillity.  The sea does not belong to despots.  Upon itssurface men can still exercise unjust laws, fight, tear one another topieces, and be carried away with terrestrial horrors.  But at thirtyfeet below its level, their reign ceases, their influence is quenched,and their power disappears.  Ah! sir, live--live in the bosom of thewaters!  There only is independence!  There I recognise no masters!There I am free!"
Captain Nemo suddenly became silent in the midst of this enthusiasm, bywhich he was quite carried away.  For a few moments he paced up anddown, much agitated.  Then he became more calm, regained his accustomedcoldness of expression, and turning towards me:
"Now, Professor," said he, "if you wish to go over the Nautilus, I amat your service."
Captain Nemo rose.  I followed him.  A double door, contrived at theback of the dining-room, opened, and I entered a room equal indimensions to that which I had just quitted.
It was a library.  High pieces of furniture, of black violet ebonyinlaid with brass, supported upon their wide shelves a great number ofbooks uniformly bound.  They followed the shape of the room,terminating at the lower part in huge divans, covered with brownleather, which were curved, to afford the greatest comfort.  Lightmovable desks, made to slide in and out at will, allowed one to restone's book while reading.  In the centre stood an immense table,covered with pamphlets, amongst which were some newspapers, already ofold date.  The electric light flooded everything; it was shed from fourunpolished globes half sunk in the volutes of the ceiling.  I lookedwith real admiration at this room, so ingeniously fitted up, and Icould scarcely believe my eyes.
"Captain Nemo," said I to my host, who had just thrown himself on oneof the divans, "this is a library which would do honour to more thanone of the continental palaces, and I am absolutely astounded when Iconsider that it can follow you to the bottom of the seas."
"Where could one find greater solitude or silence, Professor?" repliedCaptain Nemo.  "Did your study in the Museum afford you such perfectquiet?"
"No, sir; and I must confess that it is a very poor one after yours.You must have six or seven thousand volumes here."
"Twelve thousand, M. Aronnax.  These are the only ties which bind me tothe earth.  But I had done with the world on the day when my Nautilusplunged for the first time beneath the waters.  That day I bought mylast volumes, my last pamphlets, my last papers, and from that time Iwish to think that men no longer think or write.  These books,Professor, are at your service besides, and you can make use of themfreely."
I thanked Captain Nemo, and went up to the shelves of the library.Works on science, morals, and literature abounded in every language;but I did not see one single work on political economy; that subjectappeared to be strictly proscribed.  Strange to say, all these bookswere irregularly arranged, in whatever language they were written; andthis medley proved that the Captain of the Nautilus must have readindiscriminately the books which he took up by chance.
"Sir," said I to the Captain, "I thank you for having placed thislibrary at my disposal.  It contains treasures of science, and I shallprofit by them."
"This room is not only a library," said Captain Nemo, "it is also asmoking-room."
"A smoking-room!" I cried.  "Then one may smoke on board?"
"Certainly."
"Then, sir, I am forced to believe that you have kept up acommunication with Havannah."
"Not any," answered the Captain.  "Accept this cigar, M. Aronnax; and,though it does not come from Havannah, you will be pleased with it, ifyou are a connoisseur."
I took the cigar which was offered me; its shape recalled the Londonones, but it seemed to be made of leaves of gold.  I lighted it at alittle brazier, which was supported upon an elegant bronze stem, anddrew the first whiffs with the delight of a lover of smoking who hasnot smoked for two days.
"It is excellent, but it is not tobacco."
"No!" answered the Captain, "this tobacco comes neither from Havannahnor from the East.  It is a kind of sea-weed, rich in nicotine, withwhich the sea provides me, but somewhat sparingly."
At that moment Captain Nemo opened a door which stood opposite to thatby which I had entered the library, and I passed into an immensedrawing-room splendidly lighted.
It was a vast, four-sided room, thirty feet long, eighteen wide, andfifteen high.  A luminous ceiling, decorated with light arabesques,shed a soft clear light over all the marvels accumulated in thismuseum.  For it was in fact a museum, in which an intelligent andprodigal hand had gathered all the treasures of nature and art, withthe artistic confusion which distinguishes a painter's studio.
Thirty first-rate pictures, uniformly framed, separated by brightdrapery, ornamented the walls, which were hung with tapestry of severedesign. I saw works of great value, the greater part of which I hadadmired in the special collections of Europe, and in the exhibitions ofpaintings. The several schools of the old masters were represented by aMadonna of Raphael, a Virgin of Leonardo da Vinci, a nymph of Corregio,a woman of Titan, an Adoration of Veronese, an Assumption of Murillo, aportrait of Holbein, a monk of Velasquez, a martyr of Ribera, a fair ofRubens, two Flemish landscapes of Teniers, three little "genre"pictures of Gerard Dow, Metsu, and Paul Potter, two specimens ofGericault and Prudhon, and some sea-pieces of Backhuysen and Vernet.Amongst the works of modern painters were pictures with the signaturesof Delacroix, Ingres, Decamps, Troyon, Meissonier, Daubigny, etc.; andsome admirable statues in marble and bronze, after the finest antiquemodels, stood upon pedestals in the corners of this magnificent museum.Amazement, as the Captain of the Nautilus had predicted, had alreadybegun to take possession of me.
"Professor," said this strange man, "you must excuse the unceremoniousway in which I receive you, and the disorder of this room."
"Sir," I answered, "without seeking to know who you are, I recognise inyou an artist."
"An amateur, nothing more, sir.  Formerly I loved to collect thesebeautiful works created by the hand of man.  I sought them greedily,and ferreted them out indefatigably, and I have been able to bringtogether some objects of great value.  These are my last souvenirs ofthat world which is dead to me.  In my eyes, your modern artists arealready old; they have two or three thousand years of existence; Iconfound them in my own mind.  Masters have no age."
"And these musicians?" said I, pointing out some works of Weber,Rossini, Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, Meyerbeer, Herold, Wagner, Auber,Gounod, and a number of others, scattered over a large modelpiano-organ which occupied one of the panels of the drawing-room.
"These musicians," replied Captain Nemo, "are the contemporaries ofOrpheus; for in the memory of the dead all chronological differencesare effaced; and I am dead, Professor; as much dead as those of yourfriends who are sleeping six feet under the earth!"
Captain Nemo was silent, and seemed lost in a profound reverie. Icontemplated him with deep interest, analysing in silence the strangeexpression of his countenance. Leaning on his elbow against an angle ofa costly mosaic table, he no longer saw me,--he had forgotten mypresence.
I did not disturb this reverie, and continued my observation of thecuriosities which enriched this drawing-room.
Under elegant glass cases, fixed by copper rivets, were classed andlabelled the most precious productions of the sea which had ever beenpresented to the eye of a naturalist.  My delight as a professor may beconceived.
The division containing the zoophytes presented the most curiousspecimens of the two groups of polypi and echinodermes. In the firstgroup, the tubipores, were gorgones arranged like a fan, soft spongesof Syria, ises of the Moluccas, pennatules, an admirable virgularia ofthe Norwegian seas, variegated unbellulairae, alcyonariae, a wholeseries of madrepores, which my master Milne Edwards has so cleverlyclassified, amongst which I remarked some wonderful flabellinaeoculinae of the Island of Bourbon, the "Neptune's car" of the Antilles,superb varieties of corals--in short, every species of those curiouspolypi of which entire islands are formed, which will one day becomecontinents. Of the echinodermes, remarkable for their coating ofspines, asteri, sea-stars, pantacrinae, comatules, asterophons, echini,holothuri, etc., represented individually a complete collection of thisgroup.
A somewhat nervous conchyliologist would certainly have fainted beforeother more numerous cases, in which were classified the specimens ofmolluscs. It was a collection of inestimable value, which time fails meto describe minutely. Amongst these specimens I will quote from memoryonly the elegant royal hammer-fish of the Indian Ocean, whose regularwhite spots stood out brightly on a red and brown ground, an imperialspondyle, bright-coloured, bristling with spines, a rare specimen inthe European museums--(I estimated its value at not less than L1000); acommon hammer-fish of the seas of New Holland, which is only procuredwith difficulty; exotic buccardia of Senegal; fragile white bivalveshells, which a breath might shatter like a soap-bubble; severalvarieties of the aspirgillum of Java, a kind of calcareous tube, edgedwith leafy folds, and much debated by amateurs; a whole series oftrochi, some a greenish-yellow, found in the American seas, others areddish-brown, natives of Australian waters; others from the Gulf ofMexico, remarkable for their imbricated shell; stellari found in theSouthern Seas; and last, the rarest of all, the magnificent spur of NewZealand; and every description of delicate and fragile shells to whichscience has given appropriate names.
Apart, in separate compartments, were spread out chaplets of pearls ofthe greatest beauty, which reflected the electric light in littlesparks of fire; pink pearls, torn from the pinna-marina of the Red Sea;green pearls of the haliotyde iris; yellow, blue and black pearls, thecurious productions of the divers molluscs of every ocean, and certainmussels of the water-courses of the North; lastly, several specimens ofinestimable value which had been gathered from the rarest pintadines.Some of these pearls were larger than a pigeon's egg, and were worth asmuch, and more than that which the traveller Tavernier sold to the Shahof Persia for three millions, and surpassed the one in the possessionof the Imaum of Muscat, which I had believed to be unrivalled in theworld.
Therefore, to estimate the value of this collection was simplyimpossible.  Captain Nemo must have expended millions in theacquirement of these various specimens, and I was thinking what sourcehe could have drawn from, to have been able thus to gratify his fancyfor collecting, when I was interrupted by these words:
"You are examining my shells, Professor?  Unquestionably they must beinteresting to a naturalist; but for me they have a far greater charm,for I have collected them all with my own hand, and there is not a seaon the face of the globe which has escaped my researches."
"I can understand, Captain, the delight of wandering about in the midstof such riches.  You are one of those who have collected theirtreasures themselves.  No museum in Europe possesses such a collectionof the produce of the ocean.  But if I exhaust all my admiration uponit, I shall have none left for the vessel which carries it.  I do notwish to pry into your secrets:  but I must confess that this Nautilus,with the motive power which is confined in it, the contrivances whichenable it to be worked, the powerful agent which propels it, all excitemy curiosity to the highest pitch.  I see suspended on the walls ofthis room instruments of whose use I am ignorant."
"You will find these same instruments in my own room, Professor, whereI shall have much pleasure in explaining their use to you.  But firstcome and inspect the cabin which is set apart for your own use.  Youmust see how you will be accommodated on board the Nautilus."
I followed Captain Nemo who, by one of the doors opening from eachpanel of the drawing-room, regained the waist.  He conducted me towardsthe bow, and there I found, not a cabin, but an elegant room, with abed, dressing-table, and several other pieces of excellent furniture.
I could only thank my host.
"Your room adjoins mine," said he, opening a door, "and mine opens intothe drawing-room that we have just quitted."
I entered the Captain's room:  it had a severe, almost a monkishaspect.  A small iron bedstead, a table, some articles for the toilet;the whole lighted by a skylight.  No comforts, the strictestnecessaries only.
Captain Nemo pointed to a seat.
"Be so good as to sit down," he said.  I seated myself, and he beganthus:


CHAPTER XI
ALL BY ELECTRICITY
"Sir," said Captain Nemo, showing me the instruments hanging on thewalls of his room, "here are the contrivances required for thenavigation of the Nautilus.  Here, as in the drawing-room, I have themalways under my eyes, and they indicate my position and exact directionin the middle of the ocean.  Some are known to you, such as thethermometer, which gives the internal temperature of the Nautilus; thebarometer, which indicates the weight of the air and foretells thechanges of the weather; the hygrometer, which marks the dryness of theatmosphere; the storm-glass, the contents of which, by decomposing,announce the approach of tempests; the compass, which guides my course;the sextant, which shows the latitude by the altitude of the sun;chronometers, by which I calculate the longitude; and glasses for dayand night, which I use to examine the points of the horizon, when theNautilus rises to the surface of the waves."
"These are the usual nautical instruments," I replied, "and I know theuse of them.  But these others, no doubt, answer to the particularrequirements of the Nautilus.  This dial with movable needle is amanometer, is it not?"
"It is actually a manometer.  But by communication with the water,whose external pressure it indicates, it gives our depth at the sametime."
"And these other instruments, the use of which I cannot guess?"
"Here, Professor, I ought to give you some explanations.  Will you bekind enough to listen to me?"
He was silent for a few moments, then he said:
"There is a powerful agent, obedient, rapid, easy, which conforms toevery use, and reigns supreme on board my vessel.  Everything is doneby means of it.  It lights, warms it, and is the soul of my mechanicalapparatus.  This agent is electricity."
"Electricity?"  I cried in surprise.
"Yes, sir."
"Nevertheless, Captain, you possess an extreme rapidity of movement,which does not agree well with the power of electricity.  Until now,its dynamic force has remained under restraint, and has only been ableto produce a small amount of power."
"Professor," said Captain Nemo, "my electricity is not everybody's.You know what sea-water is composed of.  In a thousand grammes arefound 96 1/2 per cent. of water, and about 2 2/3 per cent.  of chlorideof sodium; then, in a smaller quantity, chlorides of magnesium and ofpotassium, bromide of magnesium, sulphate of magnesia, sulphate andcarbonate of lime.  You see, then, that chloride of sodium forms alarge part of it.  So it is this sodium that I extract from thesea-water, and of which I compose my ingredients.  I owe all to theocean; it produces electricity, and electricity gives heat, light,motion, and, in a word, life to the Nautilus."
"But not the air you breathe?"
"Oh!  I could manufacture the air necessary for my consumption, but itis useless, because I go up to the surface of the water when I please.However, if electricity does not furnish me with air to breathe, itworks at least the powerful pumps that are stored in spaciousreservoirs, and which enable me to prolong at need, and as long as Iwill, my stay in the depths of the sea.  It gives a uniform andunintermittent light, which the sun does not.  Now look at this clock;it is electrical, and goes with a regularity that defies the bestchronometers.  I have divided it into twenty-four hours, like theItalian clocks, because for me there is neither night nor day, sun normoon, but only that factitious light that I take with me to the bottomof the sea.  Look! just now, it is ten o'clock in the morning."
"Exactly."
"Another application of electricity.  This dial hanging in front of usindicates the speed of the Nautilus.  An electric thread puts it incommunication with the screw, and the needle indicates the real speed.Look! now we are spinning along with a uniform speed of fifteen milesan hour."
"It is marvelous!  And I see, Captain, you were right to make use ofthis agent that takes the place of wind, water, and steam."
"We have not finished, M. Aronnax," said Captain Nemo, rising.  "If youwill allow me, we will examine the stern of the Nautilus."
Really, I knew already the anterior part of this submarine boat, ofwhich this is the exact division, starting from the ship's head: thedining-room, five yards long, separated from the library by awater-tight partition; the library, five yards long; the largedrawing-room, ten yards long, separated from the Captain's room by asecond water-tight partition; the said room, five yards in length;mine, two and a half yards; and, lastly a reservoir of air, seven and ahalf yards, that extended to the bows.  Total length thirty five yards,or one hundred and five feet.  The partitions had doors that were shuthermetically by means of india-rubber instruments, and they ensured thesafety of the Nautilus in case of a leak.
I followed Captain Nemo through the waist, and arrived at the centre ofthe boat.  There was a sort of well that opened between two partitions.An iron ladder, fastened with an iron hook to the partition, led to theupper end.  I asked the Captain what the ladder was used for.
"It leads to the small boat," he said.
"What! have you a boat?"  I exclaimed, in surprise.
"Of course; an excellent vessel, light and insubmersible, that serveseither as a fishing or as a pleasure boat."
"But then, when you wish to embark, you are obliged to come to thesurface of the water?"
"Not at all.  This boat is attached to the upper part of the hull ofthe Nautilus, and occupies a cavity made for it.  It is decked, quitewater-tight, and held together by solid bolts.  This ladder leads to aman-hole made in the hull of the Nautilus, that corresponds with asimilar hole made in the side of the boat.  By this double opening Iget into the small vessel.  They shut the one belonging to theNautilus; I shut the other by means of screw pressure.  I undo thebolts, and the little boat goes up to the surface of the sea withprodigious rapidity.  I then open the panel of the bridge, carefullyshut till then; I mast it, hoist my sail, take my oars, and I'm off."
"But how do you get back on board?"
"I do not come back, M. Aronnax; the Nautilus comes to me."
"By your orders?"
"By my orders.  An electric thread connects us.  I telegraph to it, andthat is enough."
"Really," I said, astonished at these marvels, "nothing can be moresimple."
After having passed by the cage of the staircase that led to theplatform, I saw a cabin six feet long, in which Conseil and Ned Land,enchanted with their repast, were devouring it with avidity.  Then adoor opened into a kitchen nine feet long, situated between the largestore-rooms. There electricity, better than gas itself, did all thecooking.  The streams under the furnaces gave out to the sponges ofplatina a heat which was regularly kept up and distributed.  They alsoheated a distilling apparatus, which, by evaporation, furnishedexcellent drinkable water.  Near this kitchen was a bathroomcomfortably furnished, with hot and cold water taps.
Next to the kitchen was the berth-room of the vessel, sixteen feetlong.  But the door was shut, and I could not see the management of it,which might have given me an idea of the number of men employed onboard the Nautilus.
At the bottom was a fourth partition that separated this office fromthe engine-room. A door opened, and I found myself in the compartmentwhere Captain Nemo--certainly an engineer of a very high order--hadarranged his locomotive machinery.  This engine-room, clearly lighted,did not measure less than sixty-five feet in length.  It was dividedinto two parts; the first contained the materials for producingelectricity, and the second the machinery that connected it with thescrew.  I examined it with great interest, in order to understand themachinery of the Nautilus.
"You see," said the Captain, "I use Bunsen's contrivances, notRuhmkorff's. Those would not have been powerful enough.  Bunsen's arefewer in number, but strong and large, which experience proves to bethe best.  The electricity produced passes forward, where it works, byelectro-magnets of great size, on a system of levers and cog-wheelsthat transmit the movement to the axle of the screw.  This one, thediameter of which is nineteen feet, and the thread twenty-three feet,performs about 120 revolutions in a second."
"And you get then?"
"A speed of fifty miles an hour."
"I have seen the Nautilus manoeuvre before the Abraham Lincoln, and Ihave my own ideas as to its speed.  But this is not enough.  We mustsee where we go.  We must be able to direct it to the right, to theleft, above, below.  How do you get to the great depths, where you findan increasing resistance, which is rated by hundreds of atmospheres?How do you return to the surface of the ocean?  And how do you maintainyourselves in the requisite medium?  Am I asking too much?"
"Not at all, Professor," replied the Captain, with some hesitation;"since you may never leave this submarine boat.  Come into the saloon,it is our usual study, and there you will learn all you want to knowabout the Nautilus."


CHAPTER XII
SOME FIGURES
A moment after we were seated on a divan in the saloon smoking.  TheCaptain showed me a sketch that gave the plan, section, and elevationof the Nautilus.  Then he began his description in these words:
"Here, M. Aronnax, are the several dimensions of the boat you are in.It is an elongated cylinder with conical ends.  It is very like a cigarin shape, a shape already adopted in London in several constructions ofthe same sort.  The length of this cylinder, from stem to stern, isexactly 232 feet, and its maximum breadth is twenty-six feet.  It isnot built quite like your long-voyage steamers, but its lines aresufficiently long, and its curves prolonged enough, to allow the waterto slide off easily, and oppose no obstacle to its passage.  These twodimensions enable you to obtain by a simple calculation the surface andcubic contents of the Nautilus.  Its area measures 6,032 feet; and itscontents about 1,500 cubic yards; that is to say, when completelyimmersed it displaces 50,000 feet of water, or weighs 1,500 tons.
"When I made the plans for this submarine vessel, I meant thatnine-tenths should be submerged:  consequently it ought only todisplace nine-tenths of its bulk, that is to say, only to weigh thatnumber of tons.  I ought not, therefore, to have exceeded that weight,constructing it on the aforesaid dimensions.
"The Nautilus is composed of two hulls, one inside, the other outside,joined by T-shaped irons, which render it very strong.  Indeed, owingto this cellular arrangement it resists like a block, as if it weresolid.  Its sides cannot yield; it coheres spontaneously, and not bythe closeness of its rivets; and its perfect union of the materialsenables it to defy the roughest seas.
"These two hulls are composed of steel plates, whose density is from .7to .8 that of water.  The first is not less than two inches and a halfthick and weighs 394 tons.  The second envelope, the keel, twentyinches high and ten thick, weighs only sixty-two tons.  The engine, theballast, the several accessories and apparatus appendages, thepartitions and bulkheads, weigh 961.62 tons.  Do you follow all this?"
"I do."
"Then, when the Nautilus is afloat under these circumstances, one-tenthis out of the water.  Now, if I have made reservoirs of a size equal tothis tenth, or capable of holding 150 tons, and if I fill them withwater, the boat, weighing then 1,507 tons, will be completely immersed.That would happen, Professor.  These reservoirs are in the lower partof the Nautilus.  I turn on taps and they fill, and the vessel sinksthat had just been level with the surface."
"Well, Captain, but now we come to the real difficulty.  I canunderstand your rising to the surface; but, diving below the surface,does not your submarine contrivance encounter a pressure, andconsequently undergo an upward thrust of one atmosphere for everythirty feet of water, just about fifteen pounds per square inch?"
"Just so, sir."
"Then, unless you quite fill the Nautilus, I do not see how you candraw it down to those depths."
"Professor, you must not confound statics with dynamics or you will beexposed to grave errors.  There is very little labour spent inattaining the lower regions of the ocean, for all bodies have atendency to sink.  When I wanted to find out the necessary increase ofweight required to sink the Nautilus, I had only to calculate thereduction of volume that sea-water acquires according to the depth."
"That is evident."
"Now, if water is not absolutely incompressible, it is at least capableof very slight compression.  Indeed, after the most recent calculationsthis reduction is only .000436 of an atmosphere for each thirty feet ofdepth.  If we want to sink 3,000 feet, I should keep account of thereduction of bulk under a pressure equal to that of a column of waterof a thousand feet.  The calculation is easily verified.  Now, I havesupplementary reservoirs capable of holding a hundred tons.  ThereforeI can sink to a considerable depth.  When I wish to rise to the levelof the sea, I only let off the water, and empty all the reservoirs if Iwant the Nautilus to emerge from the tenth part of her total capacity."
I had nothing to object to these reasonings.
"I admit your calculations, Captain," I replied; "I should be wrong todispute them since daily experience confirms them; but I foresee a realdifficulty in the way."
"What, sir?"
"When you are about 1,000 feet deep, the walls of the Nautilus bear apressure of 100 atmospheres.  If, then, just now you were to empty thesupplementary reservoirs, to lighten the vessel, and to go up to thesurface, the pumps must overcome the pressure of 100 atmospheres, whichis 1,500 lbs.  per square inch.  From that a power----"
"That electricity alone can give," said the Captain, hastily.  "Irepeat, sir, that the dynamic power of my engines is almost infinite.The pumps of the Nautilus have an enormous power, as you must haveobserved when their jets of water burst like a torrent upon the AbrahamLincoln.  Besides, I use subsidiary reservoirs only to attain a meandepth of 750 to 1,000 fathoms, and that with a view of managing mymachines.  Also, when I have a mind to visit the depths of the oceanfive or six mlles below the surface, I make use of slower but not lessinfallible means."
"What are they, Captain?"
"That involves my telling you how the Nautilus is worked."
"I am impatient to learn."
"To steer this boat to starboard or port, to turn, in a word, followinga horizontal plan, I use an ordinary rudder fixed on the back of thestern-post, and with one wheel and some tackle to steer by.  But I canalso make the Nautilus rise and sink, and sink and rise, by a verticalmovement by means of two inclined planes fastened to its sides,opposite the centre of flotation, planes that move in every direction,and that are worked by powerful levers from the interior.  If theplanes are kept parallel with the boat, it moves horizontally.  Ifslanted, the Nautilus, according to this inclination, and under theinfluence of the screw, either sinks diagonally or rises diagonally asit suits me.  And even if I wish to rise more quickly to the surface, Iship the screw, and the pressure of the water causes the Nautilus torise vertically like a balloon filled with hydrogen."
"Bravo, Captain!  But how can the steersman follow the route in themiddle of the waters?"
"The steersman is placed in a glazed box, that is raised about the hullof the Nautilus, and furnished with lenses."
"Are these lenses capable of resisting such pressure?"
"Perfectly.  Glass, which breaks at a blow, is, nevertheless, capableof offering considerable resistance.  During some experiments offishing by electric light in 1864 in the Northern Seas, we saw platesless than a third of an inch thick resist a pressure of sixteenatmospheres.  Now, the glass that I use is not less than thirty timesthicker."
"Granted.  But, after all, in order to see, the light must exceed thedarkness, and in the midst of the darkness in the water, how can yousee?"
"Behind the steersman's cage is placed a powerful electric reflector,the rays from which light up the sea for half a mile in front."
"Ah! bravo, bravo, Captain!  Now I can account for this phosphorescencein the supposed narwhal that puzzled us so.  I now ask you if theboarding of the Nautilus and of the Scotia, that has made such a noise,has been the result of a chance rencontre?"
"Quite accidental, sir.  I was sailing only one fathom below thesurface of the water when the shock came.  It had no bad result."
"None, sir.  But now, about your rencontre with the Abraham Lincoln?"
"Professor, I am sorry for one of the best vessels in the Americannavy; but they attacked me, and I was bound to defend myself.  Icontented myself, however, with putting the frigate hors de combat; shewill not have any difficulty in getting repaired at the next port."
"Ah, Commander! your Nautilus is certainly a marvellous boat."
"Yes, Professor; and I love it as if it were part of myself.  If dangerthreatens one of your vessels on the ocean, the first impression is thefeeling of an abyss above and below.  On the Nautilus men's heartsnever fail them.  No defects to be afraid of, for the double shell isas firm as iron; no rigging to attend to; no sails for the wind tocarry away; no boilers to burst; no fire to fear, for the vessel ismade of iron, not of wood; no coal to run short, for electricity is theonly mechanical agent; no collision to fear, for it alone swims in deepwater; no tempest to brave, for when it dives below the water itreaches absolute tranquillity.  There, sir! that is the perfection ofvessels!  And if it is true that the engineer has more confidence inthe vessel than the builder, and the builder than the captain himself,you understand the trust I repose in my Nautilus; for I am at oncecaptain, builder, and engineer."
"But how could you construct this wonderful Nautilus in secret?"
"Each separate portion, M. Aronnax, was brought from different parts ofthe globe."
"But these parts had to be put together and arranged?"
"Professor, I had set up my workshops upon a desert island in theocean.  There my workmen, that is to say, the brave men that Iinstructed and educated, and myself have put together our Nautilus.Then, when the work was finished, fire destroyed all trace of ourproceedings on this island, that I could have jumped over if I hadliked."
"Then the cost of this vessel is great?"
"M. Aronnax, an iron vessel costs L145 per ton.  Now the Nautilusweighed 1,500. It came therefore to L67,500, and L80,000 more forfitting it up, and about L200,000, with the works of art and thecollections it contains."
"One last question, Captain Nemo."
"Ask it, Professor."
"You are rich?"
"Immensely rich, sir; and I could, without missing it, pay the nationaldebt of France."
I stared at the singular person who spoke thus.  Was he playing upon mycredulity?  The future would decide that.


CHAPTER XIII
THE BLACK RIVER
The portion of the terrestrial globe which is covered by water isestimated at upwards of eighty millions of acres.  This fluid masscomprises two billions two hundred and fifty millions of cubic miles,forming a spherical body of a diameter of sixty leagues, the weight ofwhich would be three quintillions of tons.  To comprehend the meaningof these figures, it is necessary to observe that a quintillion is to abillion as a billion is to unity; in other words, there are as manybillions in a quintillion as there are units in a billion.  This massof fluid is equal to about the quantity of water which would bedischarged by all the rivers of the earth in forty thousand years.
During the geological epochs the ocean originally prevailed everywhere.Then by degrees, in the silurian period, the tops of the mountainsbegan to appear, the islands emerged, then disappeared in partialdeluges, reappeared, became settled, formed continents, till at lengththe earth became geographically arranged, as we see in the present day.The solid had wrested from the liquid thirty-seven million six hundredand fifty-seven square miles, equal to twelve billions nine hundred andsixty millions of acres.
The shape of continents allows us to divide the waters into five greatportions:  the Arctic or Frozen Ocean, the Antarctic, or Frozen Ocean,the Indian, the Atlantic, and the Pacific Oceans.
The Pacific Ocean extends from north to south between the two PolarCircles, and from east to west between Asia and America, over an extentof 145 degrees of longitude.  It is the quietest of seas; its currentsare broad and slow, it has medium tides, and abundant rain.  Such wasthe ocean that my fate destined me first to travel over under thesestrange conditions.
"Sir," said Captain Nemo, "we will, if you please, take our bearingsand fix the starting-point of this voyage.  It is a quarter to twelve;I will go up again to the surface."
The Captain pressed an electric clock three times.  The pumps began todrive the water from the tanks; the needle of the manometer marked by adifferent pressure the ascent of the Nautilus, then it stopped.
"We have arrived," said the Captain.
I went to the central staircase which opened on to the platform,clambered up the iron steps, and found myself on the upper part of theNautilus.
The platform was only three feet out of water.  The front and back ofthe Nautilus was of that spindle-shape which caused it justly to becompared to a cigar.  I noticed that its iron plates, slightlyoverlaying each other, resembled the shell which clothes the bodies ofour large terrestrial reptiles.  It explained to me how natural it was,in spite of all glasses, that this boat should have been taken for amarine animal.
Toward the middle of the platform the longboat, half buried in the hullof the vessel, formed a slight excrescence.  Fore and aft rose twocages of medium height with inclined sides, and partly closed by thicklenticular glasses; one destined for the steersman who directed theNautilus, the other containing a brilliant lantern to give light on theroad.
The sea was beautiful, the sky pure.  Scarcely could the long vehiclefeel the broad undulations of the ocean.  A light breeze from the eastrippled the surface of the waters.  The horizon, free from fog, madeobservation easy.  Nothing was in sight.  Not a quicksand, not anisland.  A vast desert.
Captain Nemo, by the help of his sextant, took the altitude of the sun,which ought also to give the latitude.  He waited for some moments tillits disc touched the horizon.  Whilst taking observations not a musclemoved, the instrument could not have been more motionless in a hand ofmarble.
"Twelve o'clock, sir," said he.  "When you like----"
I cast a last look upon the sea, slightly yellowed by the Japanesecoast, and descended to the saloon.
"And now, sir, I leave you to your studies," added the Captain; "ourcourse is E.N.E., our depth is twenty-six fathoms.  Here are maps on alarge scale by which you may follow it.  The saloon is at yourdisposal, and, with your permission, I will retire."  Captain Nemobowed, and I remained alone, lost in thoughts all bearing on thecommander of the Nautilus.
For a whole hour was I deep in these reflections, seeking to piercethis mystery so interesting to me.  Then my eyes fell upon the vastplanisphere spread upon the table, and I placed my finger on the veryspot where the given latitude and longitude crossed.
The sea has its large rivers like the continents.  They are specialcurrents known by their temperature and their colour.  The mostremarkable of these is known by the name of the Gulf Stream.  Sciencehas decided on the globe the direction of five principal currents: onein the North Atlantic, a second in the South, a third in the NorthPacific, a fourth in the South, and a fifth in the Southern IndianOcean.  It is even probable that a sixth current existed at one time oranother in the Northern Indian Ocean, when the Caspian and Aral Seasformed but one vast sheet of water.
At this point indicated on the planisphere one of these currents wasrolling, the Kuro-Scivo of the Japanese, the Black River, which,leaving the Gulf of Bengal, where it is warmed by the perpendicularrays of a tropical sun, crosses the Straits of Malacca along the coastof Asia, turns into the North Pacific to the Aleutian Islands, carryingwith it trunks of camphor-trees and other indigenous productions, andedging the waves of the ocean with the pure indigo of its warm water.It was this current that the Nautilus was to follow.  I followed itwith my eye; saw it lose itself in the vastness of the Pacific, andfelt myself drawn with it, when Ned Land and Conseil appeared at thedoor of the saloon.
My two brave companions remained petrified at the sight of the wondersspread before them.
"Where are we, where are we?" exclaimed the Canadian.  "In the museumat Quebec?"
"My friends," I answered, making a sign for them to enter, "you are notin Canada, but on board the Nautilus, fifty yards below the level ofthe sea."
"But, M. Aronnax," said Ned Land, "can you tell me how many men thereare on board?  Ten, twenty, fifty, a hundred?"
"I cannot answer you, Mr. Land; it is better to abandon for a time allidea of seizing the Nautilus or escaping from it.  This ship is amasterpiece of modern industry, and I should be sorry not to have seenit.  Many people would accept the situation forced upon us, if only tomove amongst such wonders.  So be quiet and let us try and see whatpasses around us."
"See!" exclaimed the harpooner, "but we can see nothing in this ironprison!  We are walking--we are sailing--blindly."
Ned Land had scarcely pronounced these words when all was suddenlydarkness.  The luminous ceiling was gone, and so rapidly that my eyesreceived a painful impression.
We remained mute, not stirring, and not knowing what surprise awaitedus, whether agreeable or disagreeable.  A sliding noise was heard: onewould have said that panels were working at the sides of the Nautilus.
"It is the end of the end!" said Ned Land.
Suddenly light broke at each side of the saloon, through two oblongopenings.  The liquid mass appeared vividly lit up by the electricgleam.  Two crystal plates separated us from the sea.  At first Itrembled at the thought that this frail partition might break, butstrong bands of copper bound them, giving an almost infinite power ofresistance.
The sea was distinctly visible for a mile all round the Nautilus.  Whata spectacle!  What pen can describe it?  Who could paint the effects ofthe light through those transparent sheets of water, and the softnessof the successive gradations from the lower to the superior strata ofthe ocean?
We know the transparency of the sea and that its clearness is farbeyond that of rock-water. The mineral and organic substances which itholds in suspension heightens its transparency.  In certain parts ofthe ocean at the Antilles, under seventy-five fathoms of water, can beseen with surprising clearness a bed of sand.  The penetrating power ofthe solar rays does not seem to cease for a depth of one hundred andfifty fathoms.  But in this middle fluid travelled over by theNautilus, the electric brightness was produced even in the bosom of thewaves.  It was no longer luminous water, but liquid light.
On each side a window opened into this unexplored abyss.  The obscurityof the saloon showed to advantage the brightness outside, and we lookedout as if this pure crystal had been the glass of an immense aquarium.
"You wished to see, friend Ned; well, you see now."
"Curious! curious!" muttered the Canadian, who, forgetting hisill-temper, seemed to submit to some irresistible attraction; "and onewould come further than this to admire such a sight!"
"Ah!" thought I to myself, "I understand the life of this man; he hasmade a world apart for himself, in which he treasures all his greatestwonders."
For two whole hours an aquatic army escorted the Nautilus.  Duringtheir games, their bounds, while rivalling each other in beauty,brightness, and velocity, I distinguished the green labre; the bandedmullet, marked by a double line of black; the round-tailed goby, of awhite colour, with violet spots on the back; the Japanese scombrus, abeautiful mackerel of these seas, with a blue body and silvery head;the brilliant azurors, whose name alone defies description; some bandedspares, with variegated fins of blue and yellow; the woodcocks of theseas, some specimens of which attain a yard in length; Japanesesalamanders, spider lampreys, serpents six feet long, with eyes smalland lively, and a huge mouth bristling with teeth; with many otherspecies.
Our imagination was kept at its height, interjections followed quicklyon each other.  Ned named the fish, and Conseil classed them.  I was inecstasies with the vivacity of their movements and the beauty of theirforms.  Never had it been given to me to surprise these animals, aliveand at liberty, in their natural element.  I will not mention all thevarieties which passed before my dazzled eyes, all the collection ofthe seas of China and Japan.  These fish, more numerous than the birdsof the air, came, attracted, no doubt, by the brilliant focus of theelectric light.
Suddenly there was daylight in the saloon, the iron panels closedagain, and the enchanting vision disappeared.  But for a long time Idreamt on, till my eyes fell on the instruments hanging on thepartition.  The compass still showed the course to be E.N.E., themanometer indicated a pressure of five atmospheres, equivalent to adepth of twenty five fathoms, and the electric log gave a speed offifteen miles an hour.  I expected Captain Nemo, but he did not appear.The clock marked the hour of five.
Ned Land and Conseil returned to their cabin, and I retired to mychamber.  My dinner was ready.  It was composed of turtle soup made ofthe most delicate hawks bills, of a surmullet served with puff paste(the liver of which, prepared by itself, was most delicious), andfillets of the emperor-holocanthus, the savour of which seemed to mesuperior even to salmon.
I passed the evening reading, writing, and thinking.  Then sleepoverpowered me, and I stretched myself on my couch of zostera, andslept profoundly, whilst the Nautilus was gliding rapidly through thecurrent of the Black River.


CHAPTER XIV
A NOTE OF INVITATION
The next day was the 9th of November.  I awoke after a long sleep oftwelve hours.  Conseil came, according to custom, to know "how I passedthe night," and to offer his services.  He had left his friend theCanadian sleeping like a man who had never done anything else all hislife.  I let the worthy fellow chatter as he pleased, without caring toanswer him.  I was preoccupied by the absence of the Captain during oursitting of the day before, and hoping to see him to-day.
As soon as I was dressed I went into the saloon.  It was deserted.  Iplunged into the study of the shell treasures hidden behind the glasses.
The whole day passed without my being honoured by a visit from CaptainNemo.  The panels of the saloon did not open.  Perhaps they did notwish us to tire of these beautiful things.
The course of the Nautilus was E.N.E., her speed twelve knots, thedepth below the surface between twenty-five and thirty fathoms.
The next day, 10th of November, the same desertion, the same solitude.I did not see one of the ship's crew: Ned and Conseil spent the greaterpart of the day with me.  They were astonished at the puzzling absenceof the Captain.  Was this singular man ill?--had he altered hisintentions with regard to us?
After all, as Conseil said, we enjoyed perfect liberty, we weredelicately and abundantly fed.  Our host kept to his terms of thetreaty.  We could not complain, and, indeed, the singularity of ourfate reserved such wonderful compensation for us that we had no rightto accuse it as yet.
That day I commenced the journal of these adventures which has enabledme to relate them with more scrupulous exactitude and minute detail.
11th November, early in the morning.  The fresh air spreading over theinterior of the Nautilus told me that we had come to the surface of theocean to renew our supply of oxygen.  I directed my steps to thecentral staircase, and mounted the platform.
It was six o'clock, the weather was cloudy, the sea grey, but calm.Scarcely a billow.  Captain Nemo, whom I hoped to meet, would he bethere?  I saw no one but the steersman imprisoned in his glass cage.Seated upon the projection formed by the hull of the pinnace, I inhaledthe salt breeze with delight.
By degrees the fog disappeared under the action of the sun's rays, theradiant orb rose from behind the eastern horizon.  The sea flamed underits glance like a train of gunpowder.  The clouds scattered in theheights were coloured with lively tints of beautiful shades, andnumerous "mare's tails," which betokened wind for that day.  But whatwas wind to this Nautilus, which tempests could not frighten!
I was admiring this joyous rising of the sun, so gay, and solife-giving, when I heard steps approaching the platform.  I wasprepared to salute Captain Nemo, but it was his second (whom I hadalready seen on the Captain's first visit) who appeared.  He advancedon the platform, not seeming to see me.  With his powerful glass to hiseye, he scanned every point of the horizon with great attention.  Thisexamination over, he approached the panel and pronounced a sentence inexactly these terms.  I have remembered it, for every morning it wasrepeated under exactly the same conditions.  It was thus worded:
"Nautron respoc lorni virch."
What it meant I could not say.
These words pronounced, the second descended.  I thought that theNautilus was about to return to its submarine navigation.  I regainedthe panel and returned to my chamber.
Five days sped thus, without any change in our situation.  Everymorning I mounted the platform.  The same phrase was pronounced by thesame individual.  But Captain Nemo did not appear.
I had made up my mind that I should never see him again, when, on the16th November, on returning to my room with Ned and Conseil, I foundupon my table a note addressed to me.  I opened it impatiently.  It waswritten in a bold, clear hand, the characters rather pointed, recallingthe German type.  The note was worded as follows:

TO PROFESSOR ARONNAX, On board the Nautilus.  16th of November, 1867.
Captain Nemo invites Professor Aronnax to a hunting-party, which willtake place to-morrow morning in the forests of the Island of Crespo.He hopes that nothing will prevent the Professor from being present,and he will with pleasure see him joined by his companions.
CAPTAIN NEMO, Commander of the Nautilus.

"A hunt!" exclaimed Ned.
"And in the forests of the Island of Crespo!" added Conseil.
"Oh! then the gentleman is going on terra firma?" replied Ned Land.
"That seems to me to be clearly indicated," said I, reading the letteronce more.
"Well, we must accept," said the Canadian.  "But once more on dryground, we shall know what to do.  Indeed, I shall not be sorry to eata piece of fresh venison."
Without seeking to reconcile what was contradictory between CaptainNemo's manifest aversion to islands and continents, and his invitationto hunt in a forest, I contented myself with replying:
"Let us first see where the Island of Crespo is."
I consulted the planisphere, and in 32° 40' N. lat. and 157°50' W. long., I found a small island, recognised in 1801 by CaptainCrespo, and marked in the ancient Spanish maps as Rocca de la Plata,the meaning of which is The Silver Rock.  We were then about eighteenhundred miles from our starting-point, and the course of the Nautilus,a little changed, was bringing it back towards the southeast.
I showed this little rock, lost in the midst of the North Pacific, tomy companions.
"If Captain Nemo does sometimes go on dry ground," said I, "he at leastchooses desert islands."
Ned Land shrugged his shoulders without speaking, and Conseil and heleft me.
After supper, which was served by the steward, mute and impassive, Iwent to bed, not without some anxiety.
The next morning, the 17th of November, on awakening, I felt that theNautilus was perfectly still.  I dressed quickly and entered the saloon.
Captain Nemo was there, waiting for me.  He rose, bowed, and asked meif it was convenient for me to accompany him.  As he made no allusionto his absence during the last eight days, I did not mention it, andsimply answered that my companions and myself were ready to follow him.
We entered the dining-room, where breakfast was served.
"M. Aronnax," said the Captain, "pray, share my breakfast withoutceremony; we will chat as we eat.  For, though I promised you a walk inthe forest, I did not undertake to find hotels there.  So breakfast asa man who will most likely not have his dinner till very late."
I did honour to the repast.  It was composed of several kinds of fish,and slices of sea-cucumber, and different sorts of seaweed.  Our drinkconsisted of pure water, to which the Captain added some drops of afermented liquor, extracted by the Kamschatcha method from a seaweedknown under the name of Rhodomenia palmata.  Captain Nemo ate at firstwithout saying a word.  Then he began:
"Sir, when I proposed to you to hunt in my submarine forest of Crespo,you evidently thought me mad.  Sir, you should never judge lightly ofany man."
"But Captain, believe me----"
"Be kind enough to listen, and you will then see whether you have anycause to accuse me of folly and contradiction."
"I listen."
"You know as well as I do, Professor, that man can live under water,providing he carries with him a sufficient supply of breathable air.In submarine works, the workman, clad in an impervious dress, with hishead in a metal helmet, receives air from above by means of forcingpumps and regulators."
"That is a diving apparatus," said I.
"Just so, but under these conditions the man is not at liberty; he isattached to the pump which sends him air through an india-rubber tube,and if we were obliged to be thus held to the Nautilus, we could not gofar."
"And the means of getting free?"  I asked.
"It is to use the Rouquayrol apparatus, invented by two of your owncountrymen, which I have brought to perfection for my own use, andwhich will allow you to risk yourself under these new physiologicalconditions without any organ whatever suffering.  It consists of areservoir of thick iron plates, in which I store the air under apressure of fifty atmospheres.  This reservoir is fixed on the back bymeans of braces, like a soldier's knapsack.  Its upper part forms a boxin which the air is kept by means of a bellows, and therefore cannotescape unless at its normal tension.  In the Rouquayrol apparatus suchas we use, two india rubber pipes leave this box and join a sort oftent which holds the nose and mouth; one is to introduce fresh air, theother to let out the foul, and the tongue closes one or the otheraccording to the wants of the respirator.  But I, in encountering greatpressures at the bottom of the sea, was obliged to shut my head, likethat of a diver in a ball of copper; and it is to this ball of copperthat the two pipes, the inspirator and the expirator, open."
"Perfectly, Captain Nemo; but the air that you carry with you must soonbe used; when it only contains fifteen per cent.  of oxygen it is nolonger fit to breathe."
"Right!  But I told you, M. Aronnax, that the pumps of the Nautilusallow me to store the air under considerable pressure, and on thoseconditions the reservoir of the apparatus can furnish breathable airfor nine or ten hours."
"I have no further objections to make," I answered.  "I will only askyou one thing, Captain--how can you light your road at the bottom ofthe sea?"
"With the Ruhmkorff apparatus, M. Aronnax; one is carried on the back,the other is fastened to the waist.  It is composed of a Bunsen pile,which I do not work with bichromate of potash, but with sodium.  A wireis introduced which collects the electricity produced, and directs ittowards a particularly made lantern.  In this lantern is a spiral glasswhich contains a small quantity of carbonic gas.  When the apparatus isat work this gas becomes luminous, giving out a white and continuouslight.  Thus provided, I can breathe and I can see."
"Captain Nemo, to all my objections you make such crushing answers thatI dare no longer doubt.  But, if I am forced to admit the Rouquayroland Ruhmkorff apparatus, I must be allowed some reservations withregard to the gun I am to carry."
"But it is not a gun for powder," answered the Captain.
"Then it is an air-gun."
"Doubtless!  How would you have me manufacture gun powder on board,without either saltpetre, sulphur, or charcoal?"
"Besides," I added, "to fire under water in a medium eight hundred andfifty-five times denser than the air, we must conquer very considerableresistance."
"That would be no difficulty.  There exist guns, according to Fulton,perfected in England by Philip Coles and Burley, in France by Furcy,and in Italy by Landi, which are furnished with a peculiar system ofclosing, which can fire under these conditions.  But I repeat, havingno powder, I use air under great pressure, which the pumps of theNautilus furnish abundantly."
"But this air must be rapidly used?"
"Well, have I not my Rouquayrol reservoir, which can furnish it atneed?  A tap is all that is required.  Besides M. Aronnax, you must seeyourself that, during our submarine hunt, we can spend but little airand but few balls."
"But it seems to me that in this twilight, and in the midst of thisfluid, which is very dense compared with the atmosphere, shots couldnot go far, nor easily prove mortal."
"Sir, on the contrary, with this gun every blow is mortal; and, howeverlightly the animal is touched, it falls as if struck by a thunderbolt."
"Why?"
"Because the balls sent by this gun are not ordinary balls, but littlecases of glass.  These glass cases are covered with a case of steel,and weighted with a pellet of lead; they are real Leyden bottles, intowhich the electricity is forced to a very high tension.  With theslightest shock they are discharged, and the animal, however strong itmay be, falls dead.  I must tell you that these cases are size numberfour, and that the charge for an ordinary gun would be ten."
"I will argue no longer," I replied, rising from the table.  "I havenothing left me but to take my gun.  At all events, I will go where yougo."
Captain Nemo then led me aft; and in passing before Ned's and Conseil'scabin, I called my two companions, who followed promptly.  We then cameto a cell near the machinery-room, in which we put on our walking-dress.


CHAPTER XV
A WALK ON THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA
This cell was, to speak correctly, the arsenal and wardrobe of theNautilus.  A dozen diving apparatuses hung from the partition waitingour use.
Ned Land, on seeing them, showed evident repugnance to dress himself inone.
"But, my worthy Ned, the forests of the Island of Crespo are nothingbut submarine forests."
"Good!" said the disappointed harpooner, who saw his dreams of freshmeat fade away.  "And you, M. Aronnax, are you going to dress yourselfin those clothes?"
"There is no alternative, Master Ned."
"As you please, sir," replied the harpooner, shrugging his shoulders;"but, as for me, unless I am forced, I will never get into one."
"No one will force you, Master Ned," said Captain Nemo.
"Is Conseil going to risk it?" asked Ned.
"I follow my master wherever he goes," replied Conseil.
At the Captain's call two of the ship's crew came to help us dress inthese heavy and impervious clothes, made of india-rubber without seam,and constructed expressly to resist considerable pressure.  One wouldhave thought it a suit of armour, both supple and resisting.  This suitformed trousers and waistcoat.  The trousers were finished off withthick boots, weighted with heavy leaden soles.  The texture of thewaistcoat was held together by bands of copper, which crossed thechest, protecting it from the great pressure of the water, and leavingthe lungs free to act; the sleeves ended in gloves, which in no wayrestrained the movement of the hands.  There was a vast differencenoticeable between these consummate apparatuses and the old corkbreastplates, jackets, and other contrivances in vogue during theeighteenth century.
Captain Nemo and one of his companions (a sort of Hercules, who musthave possessed great strength), Conseil and myself were soon envelopedin the dresses.  There remained nothing more to be done but to encloseour heads in the metal box.  But, before proceeding to this operation,I asked the Captain's permission to examine the guns.
One of the Nautilus men gave me a simple gun, the butt end of which,made of steel, hollow in the centre, was rather large.  It served as areservoir for compressed air, which a valve, worked by a spring,allowed to escape into a metal tube.  A box of projectiles in a groovein the thickness of the butt end contained about twenty of theseelectric balls, which, by means of a spring, were forced into thebarrel of the gun.  As soon as one shot was fired, another was ready.
"Captain Nemo," said I, "this arm is perfect, and easily handled: Ionly ask to be allowed to try it.  But how shall we gain the bottom ofthe sea?"
"At this moment, Professor, the Nautilus is stranded in five fathoms,and we have nothing to do but to start."
"But how shall we get off?"
"You shall see."
Captain Nemo thrust his head into the helmet, Conseil and I did thesame, not without hearing an ironical "Good sport!" from the Canadian.The upper part of our dress terminated in a copper collar upon whichwas screwed the metal helmet.  Three holes, protected by thick glass,allowed us to see in all directions, by simply turning our head in theinterior of the head-dress. As soon as it was in position, theRouquayrol apparatus on our backs began to act; and, for my part, Icould breathe with ease.
With the Ruhmkorff lamp hanging from my belt, and the gun in my hand, Iwas ready to set out.  But to speak the truth, imprisoned in theseheavy garments, and glued to the deck by my leaden soles, it wasimpossible for me to take a step.
But this state of things was provided for.  I felt myself being pushedinto a little room contiguous to the wardrobe room.  My companionsfollowed, towed along in the same way.  I heard a water-tight door,furnished with stopper plates, close upon us, and we were wrapped inprofound darkness.
After some minutes, a loud hissing was heard.  I felt the cold mountfrom my feet to my chest.  Evidently from some part of the vessel theyhad, by means of a tap, given entrance to the water, which was invadingus, and with which the room was soon filled.  A second door cut in theside of the Nautilus then opened.  We saw a faint light.  In anotherinstant our feet trod the bottom of the sea.
And now, how can I retrace the impression left upon me by that walkunder the waters?  Words are impotent to relate such wonders!  CaptainNemo walked in front, his companion followed some steps behind.Conseil and I remained near each other, as if an exchange of words hadbeen possible through our metallic cases.  I no longer felt the weightof my clothing, or of my shoes, of my reservoir of air, or my thickhelmet, in the midst of which my head rattled like an almond in itsshell.
The light, which lit the soil thirty feet below the surface of theocean, astonished me by its power.  The solar rays shone through thewatery mass easily, and dissipated all colour, and I clearlydistinguished objects at a distance of a hundred and fifty yards.Beyond that the tints darkened into fine gradations of ultramarine, andfaded into vague obscurity.  Truly this water which surrounded me wasbut another air denser than the terrestrial atmosphere, but almost astransparent.  Above me was the calm surface of the sea.  We werewalking on fine, even sand, not wrinkled, as on a flat shore, whichretains the impression of the billows.  This dazzling carpet, really areflector, repelled the rays of the sun with wonderful intensity, whichaccounted for the vibration which penetrated every atom of liquid.Shall I be believed when I say that, at the depth of thirty feet, Icould see as if I was in broad daylight?
For a quarter of an hour I trod on this sand, sown with the impalpabledust of shells.  The hull of the Nautilus, resembling a long shoal,disappeared by degrees; but its lantern, when darkness should overtakeus in the waters, would help to guide us on board by its distinct rays.
Soon forms of objects outlined in the distance were discernible.  Irecognised magnificent rocks, hung with a tapestry of zoophytes of themost beautiful kind, and I was at first struck by the peculiar effectof this medium.
It was then ten in the morning; the rays of the sun struck the surfaceof the waves at rather an oblique angle, and at the touch of theirlight, decomposed by refraction as through a prism, flowers, rocks,plants, shells, and polypi were shaded at the edges by the seven solarcolours.  It was marvellous, a feast for the eyes, this complication ofcoloured tints, a perfect kaleidoscope of green, yellow, orange,violet, indigo, and blue; in one word, the whole palette of anenthusiastic colourist!  Why could I not communicate to Conseil thelively sensations which were mounting to my brain, and rival him inexpressions of admiration?  For aught I knew, Captain Nemo and hiscompanion might be able to exchange thoughts by means of signspreviously agreed upon.  So, for want of better, I talked to myself; Ideclaimed in the copper box which covered my head, thereby expendingmore air in vain words than was perhaps wise.
Various kinds of isis, clusters of pure tuft-coral, prickly fungi, andanemones formed a brilliant garden of flowers, decked with theircollarettes of blue tentacles, sea-stars studding the sandy bottom.  Itwas a real grief to me to crush under my feet the brilliant specimensof molluscs which strewed the ground by thousands, of hammerheads,donaciae (veritable bounding shells), of staircases, and redhelmet-shells, angel-wings, and many others produced by thisinexhaustible ocean.  But we were bound to walk, so we went on, whilstabove our heads waved medusae whose umbrellas of opal or rose-pink,escalloped with a band of blue, sheltered us from the rays of the sunand fiery pelagiae, which, in the darkness, would have strewn our pathwith phosphorescent light.
All these wonders I saw in the space of a quarter of a mile, scarcelystopping, and following Captain Nemo, who beckoned me on by signs.Soon the nature of the soil changed; to the sandy plain succeeded anextent of slimy mud which the Americans call "ooze," composed of equalparts of silicious and calcareous shells.  We then travelled over aplain of seaweed of wild and luxuriant vegetation.  This sward was ofclose texture, and soft to the feet, and rivalled the softest carpetwoven by the hand of man.  But whilst verdure was spread at our feet,it did not abandon our heads.  A light network of marine plants, ofthat inexhaustible family of seaweeds of which more than two thousandkinds are known, grew on the surface of the water.
I noticed that the green plants kept nearer the top of the sea, whilstthe red were at a greater depth, leaving to the black or brown the careof forming gardens and parterres in the remote beds of the ocean.
We had quitted the Nautilus about an hour and a half.  It was nearnoon; I knew by the perpendicularity of the sun's rays, which were nolonger refracted.  The magical colours disappeared by degrees, and theshades of emerald and sapphire were effaced.  We walked with a regularstep, which rang upon the ground with astonishing intensity; theslightest noise was transmitted with a quickness to which the ear isunaccustomed on the earth; indeed, water is a better conductor of soundthan air, in the ratio of four to one.  At this period the earth slopeddownwards; the light took a uniform tint.  We were at a depth of ahundred and five yards and twenty inches, undergoing a pressure of sixatmospheres.
At this depth I could still see the rays of the sun, though feebly; totheir intense brilliancy had succeeded a reddish twilight, the loweststate between day and night; but we could still see well enough; it wasnot necessary to resort to the Ruhmkorff apparatus as yet.  At thismoment Captain Nemo stopped; he waited till I joined him, and thenpointed to an obscure mass, looming in the shadow, at a short distance.
"It is the forest of the Island of Crespo," thought I; and I was notmistaken.


CHAPTER XVI
A SUBMARINE FOREST
We had at last arrived on the borders of this forest, doubtless one ofthe finest of Captain Nemo's immense domains.  He looked upon it as hisown, and considered he had the same right over it that the first menhad in the first days of the world.  And, indeed, who would havedisputed with him the possession of this submarine property?  Whatother hardier pioneer would come, hatchet in hand, to cut down the darkcopses?
This forest was composed of large tree-plants; and the moment wepenetrated under its vast arcades, I was struck by the singularposition of their branches--a position I had not yet observed.
Not an herb which carpeted the ground, not a branch which clothed thetrees, was either broken or bent, nor did they extend horizontally; allstretched up to the surface of the ocean.  Not a filament, not aribbon, however thin they might be, but kept as straight as a rod ofiron.  The fuci and llianas grew in rigid perpendicular lines, due tothe density of the element which had produced them.  Motionless yet,when bent to one side by the hand, they directly resumed their formerposition.  Truly it was the region of perpendicularity!
I soon accustomed myself to this fantastic position, as well as to thecomparative darkness which surrounded us.  The soil of the forestseemed covered with sharp blocks, difficult to avoid.  The submarineflora struck me as being very perfect, and richer even than it wouldhave been in the arctic or tropical zones, where these productions arenot so plentiful.  But for some minutes I involuntarily confounded thegenera, taking animals for plants; and who would not have beenmistaken?  The fauna and the flora are too closely allied in thissubmarine world.
These plants are self-propagated, and the principle of their existenceis in the water, which upholds and nourishes them.  The greater number,instead of leaves, shoot forth blades of capricious shapes, comprisedwithin a scale of colours pink, carmine, green, olive, fawn, and brown.
"Curious anomaly, fantastic element!" said an ingenious naturalist, "inwhich the animal kingdom blossoms, and the vegetable does not!"
In about an hour Captain Nemo gave the signal to halt; I, for my part,was not sorry, and we stretched ourselves under an arbour of alariae,the long thin blades of which stood up like arrows.
This short rest seemed delicious to me; there was nothing wanting butthe charm of conversation; but, impossible to speak, impossible toanswer, I only put my great copper head to Conseil's.  I saw the worthyfellow's eyes glistening with delight, and, to show his satisfaction,he shook himself in his breastplate of air, in the most comical way inthe world.
After four hours of this walking, I was surprised not to find myselfdreadfully hungry.  How to account for this state of the stomach Icould not tell.  But instead I felt an insurmountable desire to sleep,which happens to all divers.  And my eyes soon closed behind the thickglasses, and I fell into a heavy slumber, which the movement alone hadprevented before.  Captain Nemo and his robust companion, stretched inthe clear crystal, set us the example.
How long I remained buried in this drowsiness I cannot judge, but, whenI woke, the sun seemed sinking towards the horizon.  Captain Nemo hadalready risen, and I was beginning to stretch my limbs, when anunexpected apparition brought me briskly to my feet.
A few steps off, a monstrous sea-spider, about thirty-eight incheshigh, was watching me with squinting eyes, ready to spring upon me.Though my diver's dress was thick enough to defend me from the bite ofthis animal, I could not help shuddering with horror.  Conseil and thesailor of the Nautilus awoke at this moment.  Captain Nemo pointed outthe hideous crustacean, which a blow from the butt end of the gunknocked over, and I saw the horrible claws of the monster writhe interrible convulsions.  This incident reminded me that other animalsmore to be feared might haunt these obscure depths, against whoseattacks my diving-dress would not protect me.  I had never thought ofit before, but I now resolved to be upon my guard.  Indeed, I thoughtthat this halt would mark the termination of our walk; but I wasmistaken, for, instead of returning to the Nautilus, Captain Nemocontinued his bold excursion.  The ground was still on the incline, itsdeclivity seemed to be getting greater, and to be leading us to greaterdepths.  It must have been about three o'clock when we reached a narrowvalley, between high perpendicular walls, situated about seventy-fivefathoms deep.  Thanks to the perfection of our apparatus, we wereforty-five fathoms below the limit which nature seems to have imposedon man as to his submarine excursions.
I say seventy-five fathoms, though I had no instrument by which tojudge the distance.  But I knew that even in the clearest waters thesolar rays could not penetrate further.  And accordingly the darknessdeepened.  At ten paces not an object was visible.  I was groping myway, when I suddenly saw a brilliant white light.  Captain Nemo hadjust put his electric apparatus into use; his companion did the same,and Conseil and I followed their example.  By turning a screw Iestablished a communication between the wire and the spiral glass, andthe sea, lit by our four lanterns, was illuminated for a circle ofthirty-six yards.
As we walked I thought the light of our Ruhmkorff apparatus could notfail to draw some inhabitant from its dark couch.  But if they didapproach us, they at least kept at a respectful distance from thehunters.  Several times I saw Captain Nemo stop, put his gun to hisshoulder, and after some moments drop it and walk on.  At last, afterabout four hours, this marvellous excursion came to an end.  A wall ofsuperb rocks, in an imposing mass, rose before us, a heap of giganticblocks, an enormous, steep granite shore, forming dark grottos, butwhich presented no practicable slope; it was the prop of the Island ofCrespo.  It was the earth!  Captain Nemo stopped suddenly.  A gestureof his brought us all to a halt; and, however desirous I might be toscale the wall, I was obliged to stop.  Here ended Captain Nemo'sdomains.  And he would not go beyond them.  Further on was a portion ofthe globe he might not trample upon.
The return began.  Captain Nemo had returned to the head of his littleband, directing their course without hesitation.  I thought we were notfollowing the same road to return to the Nautilus.  The new road wasvery steep, and consequently very painful.  We approached the surfaceof the sea rapidly.  But this return to the upper strata was not sosudden as to cause relief from the pressure too rapidly, which mighthave produced serious disorder in our organisation, and brought oninternal lesions, so fatal to divers.  Very soon light reappeared andgrew, and, the sun being low on the horizon, the refraction edged thedifferent objects with a spectral ring.  At ten yards and a half deep,we walked amidst a shoal of little fishes of all kinds, more numerousthan the birds of the air, and also more agile; but no aquatic gameworthy of a shot had as yet met our gaze, when at that moment I saw theCaptain shoulder his gun quickly, and follow a moving object into theshrubs.  He fired; I heard a slight hissing, and a creature fellstunned at some distance from us.  It was a magnificent sea-otter, anenhydrus, the only exclusively marine quadruped.  This otter was fivefeet long, and must have been very valuable.  Its skin, chestnut-brownabove and silvery underneath, would have made one of those beautifulfurs so sought after in the Russian and Chinese markets: the finenessand the lustre of its coat would certainly fetch L80.  I admired thiscurious mammal, with its rounded head ornamented with short ears, itsround eyes, and white whiskers like those of a cat, with webbed feetand nails, and tufted tail.  This precious animal, hunted and trackedby fishermen, has now become very rare, and taken refuge chiefly in thenorthern parts of the Pacific, or probably its race would soon becomeextinct.
Captain Nemo's companion took the beast, threw it over his shoulder,and we continued our journey.  For one hour a plain of sand laystretched before us.  Sometimes it rose to within two yards and someinches of the surface of the water.  I then saw our image clearlyreflected, drawn inversely, and above us appeared an identical groupreflecting our movements and our actions; in a word, like us in everypoint, except that they walked with their heads downward and their feetin the air.
Another effect I noticed, which was the passage of thick clouds whichformed and vanished rapidly; but on reflection I understood that theseseeming clouds were due to the varying thickness of the reeds at thebottom, and I could even see the fleecy foam which their broken topsmultiplied on the water, and the shadows of large birds passing aboveour heads, whose rapid flight I could discern on the surface of the sea.
On this occasion I was witness to one of the finest gun shots whichever made the nerves of a hunter thrill.  A large bird of great breadthof wing, clearly visible, approached, hovering over us.  Captain Nemo'scompanion shouldered his gun and fired, when it was only a few yardsabove the waves.  The creature fell stunned, and the force of its fallbrought it within the reach of dexterous hunter's grasp.  It was analbatross of the finest kind.
Our march had not been interrupted by this incident.  For two hours wefollowed these sandy plains, then fields of algae very disagreeable tocross.  Candidly, I could do no more when I saw a glimmer of light,which, for a half mile, broke the darkness of the waters.  It was thelantern of the Nautilus.  Before twenty minutes were over we should beon board, and I should be able to breathe with ease, for it seemed thatmy reservoir supplied air very deficient in oxygen.  But I did notreckon on an accidental meeting which delayed our arrival for some time.
I had remained some steps behind, when I presently saw Captain Nemocoming hurriedly towards me.  With his strong hand he bent me to theground, his companion doing the same to Conseil.  At first I knew notwhat to think of this sudden attack, but I was soon reassured by seeingthe Captain lie down beside me, and remain immovable.
I was stretched on the ground, just under the shelter of a bush ofalgae, when, raising my head, I saw some enormous mass, castingphosphorescent gleams, pass blusteringly by.
My blood froze in my veins as I recognised two formidable sharks whichthreatened us.  It was a couple of tintoreas, terrible creatures, withenormous tails and a dull glassy stare, the phosphorescent matterejected from holes pierced around the muzzle.  Monstrous brutes! whichwould crush a whole man in their iron jaws.  I did not know whetherConseil stopped to classify them; for my part, I noticed their silverbellies, and their huge mouths bristling with teeth, from a veryunscientific point of view, and more as a possible victim than as anaturalist.
Happily the voracious creatures do not see well.  They passed withoutseeing us, brushing us with their brownish fins, and we escaped by amiracle from a danger certainly greater than meeting a tiger full-facein the forest.  Half an hour after, guided by the electric light wereached the Nautilus.  The outside door had been left open, and CaptainNemo closed it as soon as we had entered the first cell.  He thenpressed a knob.  I heard the pumps working in the midst of the vessel,I felt the water sinking from around me, and in a few moments the cellwas entirely empty.  The inside door then opened, and we entered thevestry.
There our diving-dress was taken off, not without some trouble, and,fairly worn out from want of food and sleep, I returned to my room, ingreat wonder at this surprising excursion at the bottom of the sea.


CHAPTER XVII
FOUR THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE PACIFIC
The next morning, the 18th of November, I had quite recovered from myfatigues of the day before, and I went up on to the platform, just asthe second lieutenant was uttering his daily phrase.
I was admiring the magnificent aspect of the ocean when Captain Nemoappeared.  He did not seem to be aware of my presence, and began aseries of astronomical observations.  Then, when he had finished, hewent and leant on the cage of the watch-light, and gazed abstractedlyon the ocean.  In the meantime, a number of the sailors of theNautilus, all strong and healthy men, had come up onto the platform.They came to draw up the nets that had been laid all night.  Thesesailors were evidently of different nations, although the European typewas visible in all of them.  I recognised some unmistakable Irishmen,Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek, or a Candiote.  They were civil,and only used that odd language among themselves, the origin of which Icould not guess, neither could I question them.
The nets were hauled in.  They were a large kind of "chaluts," likethose on the Normandy coasts, great pockets that the waves and a chainfixed in the smaller meshes kept open.  These pockets, drawn by ironpoles, swept through the water, and gathered in everything in theirway.  That day they brought up curious specimens from those productivecoasts.
I reckoned that the haul had brought in more than nine hundredweight offish.  It was a fine haul, but not to be wondered at.  Indeed, the netsare let down for several hours, and enclose in their meshes an infinitevariety.  We had no lack of excellent food, and the rapidity of theNautilus and the attraction of the electric light could always renewour supply.  These several productions of the sea were immediatelylowered through the panel to the steward's room, some to be eatenfresh, and others pickled.
The fishing ended, the provision of air renewed, I thought that theNautilus was about to continue its submarine excursion, and waspreparing to return to my room, when, without further preamble, theCaptain turned to me, saying:
"Professor, is not this ocean gifted with real life?  It has itstempers and its gentle moods.  Yesterday it slept as we did, and now ithas woke after a quiet night.  Look!" he continued, "it wakes under thecaresses of the sun.  It is going to renew its diurnal existence.  Itis an interesting study to watch the play of its organisation.  It hasa pulse, arteries, spasms; and I agree with the learned Maury, whodiscovered in it a circulation as real as the circulation of blood inanimals.
"Yes, the ocean has indeed circulation, and to promote it, the Creatorhas caused things to multiply in it--caloric, salt, and animalculae."
When Captain Nemo spoke thus, he seemed altogether changed, and arousedan extraordinary emotion in me.
"Also," he added, "true existence is there; and I can imagine thefoundations of nautical towns, clusters of submarine houses, which,like the Nautilus, would ascend every morning to breathe at the surfaceof the water, free towns, independent cities.  Yet who knows whethersome despot----"
Captain Nemo finished his sentence with a violent gesture.  Then,addressing me as if to chase away some sorrowful thought:
"M. Aronnax," he asked, "do you know the depth of the ocean?"
"I only know, Captain, what the principal soundings have taught us."
"Could you tell me them, so that I can suit them to my purpose?"
"These are some," I replied, "that I remember.  If I am not mistaken, adepth of 8,000 yards has been found in the North Atlantic, and 2,500yards in the Mediterranean.  The most remarkable soundings have beenmade in the South Atlantic, near the thirty-fifth parallel, and theygave 12,000 yards, 14,000 yards, and 15,000 yards.  To sum up all, itis reckoned that if the bottom of the sea were levelled, its mean depthwould be about one and three-quarter leagues."
"Well, Professor," replied the Captain, "we shall show you better thanthat I hope.  As to the mean depth of this part of the Pacific, I tellyou it is only 4,000 yards."
Having said this, Captain Nemo went towards the panel, and disappeareddown the ladder.  I followed him, and went into the large drawing-room.The screw was immediately put in motion, and the log gave twenty milesan hour.
During the days and weeks that passed, Captain Nemo was very sparing ofhis visits.  I seldom saw him.  The lieutenant pricked the ship'scourse regularly on the chart, so I could always tell exactly the routeof the Nautilus.
Nearly every day, for some time, the panels of the drawing-room wereopened, and we were never tired of penetrating the mysteries of thesubmarine world.
The general direction of the Nautilus was south-east, and it keptbetween 100 and 150 yards of depth.  One day, however, I do not knowwhy, being drawn diagonally by means of the inclined planes, it touchedthe bed of the sea.  The thermometer indicated a temperature of 4.25(cent.): a temperature that at this depth seemed common to alllatitudes.
At three o'clock in the morning of the 26th of November the Nautiluscrossed the tropic of Cancer at 172° long.  On 27th instant itsighted the Sandwich Islands, where Cook died, February 14, 1779.  Wehad then gone 4,860 leagues from our starting-point. In the morning,when I went on the platform, I saw two miles to windward, Hawaii, thelargest of the seven islands that form the group.  I saw clearly thecultivated ranges, and the several mountain-chains that run parallelwith the side, and the volcanoes that overtop Mouna-Rea, which rise5,000 yards above the level of the sea.  Besides other things the netsbrought up, were several flabellariae and graceful polypi, that arepeculiar to that part of the ocean.  The direction of the Nautilus wasstill to the south-east. It crossed the equator December 1, in 142°long.; and on the 4th of the same month, after crossing rapidly andwithout anything in particular occurring, we sighted the Marquesasgroup.  I saw, three miles off, Martin's peak in Nouka-Hiva, thelargest of the group that belongs to France.  I only saw the woodymountains against the horizon, because Captain Nemo did not wish tobring the ship to the wind.  There the nets brought up beautifulspecimens of fish:  some with azure fins and tails like gold, the fleshof which is unrivalled; some nearly destitute of scales, but ofexquisite flavour; others, with bony jaws, and yellow-tinged gills, asgood as bonitos; all fish that would be of use to us.  After leavingthese charming islands protected by the French flag, from the 4th tothe 11th of December the Nautilus sailed over about 2,000 miles.
During the daytime of the 11th of December I was busy reading in thelarge drawing-room. Ned Land and Conseil watched the luminous waterthrough the half-open panels.  The Nautilus was immovable.  While itsreservoirs were filled, it kept at a depth of 1,000 yards, a regionrarely visited in the ocean, and in which large fish were seldom seen.
I was then reading a charming book by Jean Mace, The Slaves of theStomach, and I was learning some valuable lessons from it, when Conseilinterrupted me.
"Will master come here a moment?" he said, in a curious voice.
"What is the matter, Conseil?"
"I want master to look."
I rose, went, and leaned on my elbows before the panes and watched.
In a full electric light, an enormous black mass, quite immovable, wassuspended in the midst of the waters.  I watched it attentively,seeking to find out the nature of this gigantic cetacean.  But a suddenthought crossed my mind.  "A vessel!" I said, half aloud.
"Yes," replied the Canadian, "a disabled ship that has sunkperpendicularly."
Ned Land was right; we were close to a vessel of which the tatteredshrouds still hung from their chains.  The keel seemed to be in goodorder, and it had been wrecked at most some few hours.  Three stumps ofmasts, broken off about two feet above the bridge, showed that thevessel had had to sacrifice its masts.  But, lying on its side, it hadfilled, and it was heeling over to port.  This skeleton of what it hadonce been was a sad spectacle as it lay lost under the waves, butsadder still was the sight of the bridge, where some corpses, boundwith ropes, were still lying.  I counted five--four men, one of whomwas standing at the helm, and a woman standing by the poop, holding aninfant in her arms.  She was quite young.  I could distinguish herfeatures, which the water had not decomposed, by the brilliant lightfrom the Nautilus.  In one despairing effort, she had raised her infantabove her head--poor little thing!--whose arms encircled its mother'sneck.  The attitude of the four sailors was frightful, distorted asthey were by their convulsive movements, whilst making a last effort tofree themselves from the cords that bound them to the vessel.  Thesteersman alone, calm, with a grave, clear face, his grey hair glued tohis forehead, and his hand clutching the wheel of the helm, seemed eventhen to be guiding the three broken masts through the depths of theocean.
What a scene!  We were dumb; our hearts beat fast before thisshipwreck, taken as it were from life and photographed in its lastmoments.  And I saw already, coming towards it with hungry eyes,enormous sharks, attracted by the human flesh.
However, the Nautilus, turning, went round the submerged vessel, and inone instant I read on the stern--"The Florida, Sunderland."


CHAPTER XVIII
VANIKORO
This terrible spectacle was the forerunner of the series of maritimecatastrophes that the Nautilus was destined to meet with in its route.As long as it went through more frequented waters, we often saw thehulls of shipwrecked vessels that were rotting in the depths, anddeeper down cannons, bullets, anchors, chains, and a thousand otheriron materials eaten up by rust.  However, on the 11th of December wesighted the Pomotou Islands, the old "dangerous group" of Bougainville,that extend over a space of 500 leagues at E.S.E. to W.N.W., from theIsland Ducie to that of Lazareff.  This group covers an area of 370square leagues, and it is formed of sixty groups of islands, amongwhich the Gambier group is remarkable, over which France exercisessway.  These are coral islands, slowly raised, but continuous, createdby the daily work of polypi.  Then this new island will be joined lateron to the neighboring groups, and a fifth continent will stretch fromNew Zealand and New Caledonia, and from thence to the Marquesas.
One day, when I was suggesting this theory to Captain Nemo, he repliedcoldly:
"The earth does not want new continents, but new men."
Chance had conducted the Nautilus towards the Island ofClermont-Tonnere, one of the most curious of the group, that wasdiscovered in 1822 by Captain Bell of the Minerva. I could study nowthe madreporal system, to which are due the islands in this ocean.
Madrepores (which must not be mistaken for corals) have a tissue linedwith a calcareous crust, and the modifications of its structure haveinduced M. Milne Edwards, my worthy master, to class them into fivesections. The animalcule that the marine polypus secretes live bymillions at the bottom of their cells. Their calcareous deposits becomerocks, reefs, and large and small islands. Here they form a ring,surrounding a little inland lake, that communicates with the sea bymeans of gaps. There they make barriers of reefs like those on thecoasts of New Caledonia and the various Pomoton islands. In otherplaces, like those at Reunion and at Maurice, they raise fringed reefs,high, straight walls, near which the depth of the ocean is considerable.
Some cable-lengths off the shores of the Island of Clermont I admiredthe gigantic work accomplished by these microscopical workers. Thesewalls are specially the work of those madrepores known as milleporas,porites, madrepores, and astraeas. These polypi are found particularlyin the rough beds of the sea, near the surface; and consequently it isfrom the upper part that they begin their operations, in which theybury themselves by degrees with the debris of the secretions thatsupport them. Such is, at least, Darwin's theory, who thus explains theformation of the _atolls_, a superior theory (to my mind) to that givenof the foundation of the madreporical works, summits of mountains orvolcanoes, that are submerged some feet below the level of the sea.
I could observe closely these curious walls, for perpendicularly theywere more than 300 yards deep, and our electric sheets lighted up thiscalcareous matter brilliantly. Replying to a question Conseil asked meas to the time these colossal barriers took to be raised, I astonishedhim much by telling him that learned men reckoned it about the eighthof an inch in a hundred years.
Towards evening Clermont-Tonnerre was lost in the distance, and theroute of the Nautilus was sensibly changed. After having crossed thetropic of Capricorn in 135° longitude, it sailed W.N.W., makingagain for the tropical zone. Although the summer sun was very strong,we did not suffer from heat, for at fifteen or twenty fathoms below thesurface, the temperature did not rise above from ten to twelve degrees.
On 15th of December, we left to the east the bewitching group of theSocieties and the graceful Tahiti, queen of the Pacific.  I saw in themorning, some miles to the windward, the elevated summits of theisland.  These waters furnished our table with excellent fish,mackerel, bonitos, and some varieties of a sea-serpent.
On the 25th of December the Nautilus sailed into the midst of the NewHebrides, discovered by Quiros in 1606, and that Bougainville exploredin 1768, and to which Cook gave its present name in 1773.  This groupis composed principally of nine large islands, that form a band of 120leagues N.N.S. to S.S.W., between 15° and 2° S. lat., and 164deg. and 168° long.  We passed tolerably near to the Island ofAurou, that at noon looked like a mass of green woods, surmounted by apeak of great height.
That day being Christmas Day, Ned Land seemed to regret sorely thenon-celebration of "Christmas," the family fete of which Protestantsare so fond.  I had not seen Captain Nemo for a week, when, on themorning of the 27th, he came into the large drawing-room, alwaysseeming as if he had seen you five minutes before.  I was busilytracing the route of the Nautilus on the planisphere.  The Captain cameup to me, put his finger on one spot on the chart, and said this singleword.
"Vanikoro."
The effect was magical!  It was the name of the islands on which LaPerouse had been lost!  I rose suddenly.
"The Nautilus has brought us to Vanikoro?"  I asked.
"Yes, Professor," said the Captain.
"And I can visit the celebrated islands where the Boussole and theAstrolabe struck?"
"If you like, Professor."
"When shall we be there?"
"We are there now."
Followed by Captain Nemo, I went up on to the platform, and greedilyscanned the horizon.
To the N.E. two volcanic islands emerged of unequal size, surrounded bya coral reef that measured forty miles in circumference.  We were closeto Vanikoro, really the one to which Dumont d'Urville gave the name ofIsle de la Recherche, and exactly facing the little harbour of Vanou,situated in 16° 4' S. lat., and 164° 32' E. long.  The earthseemed covered with verdure from the shore to the summits in theinterior, that were crowned by Mount Kapogo, 476 feet high.  TheNautilus, having passed the outer belt of rocks by a narrow strait,found itself among breakers where the sea was from thirty to fortyfathoms deep.  Under the verdant shade of some mangroves I perceivedsome savages, who appeared greatly surprised at our approach.  In thelong black body, moving between wind and water, did they not see someformidable cetacean that they regarded with suspicion?
Just then Captain Nemo asked me what I knew about the wreck of LaPerouse.
"Only what everyone knows, Captain," I replied.
"And could you tell me what everyone knows about it?" he inquired,ironically.
"Easily."
I related to him all that the last works of Dumont d'Urville had madeknown--works from which the following is a brief account.
La Perouse, and his second, Captain de Langle, were sent by Louis XVI,in 1785, on a voyage of circumnavigation.  They embarked in thecorvettes Boussole and the Astrolabe, neither of which were again heardof.  In 1791, the French Government, justly uneasy as to the fate ofthese two sloops, manned two large merchantmen, the Recherche and theEsperance, which left Brest the 28th of September under the command ofBruni d'Entrecasteaux.
Two months after, they learned from Bowen, commander of the Albemarle,that the debris of shipwrecked vessels had been seen on the coasts ofNew Georgia.  But D'Entrecasteaux, ignoring this communication--ratheruncertain, besides--directed his course towards the Admiralty Islands,mentioned in a report of Captain Hunter's as being the place where LaPerouse was wrecked.
They sought in vain.  The Esperance and the Recherche passed beforeVanikoro without stopping there, and, in fact, this voyage was mostdisastrous, as it cost D'Entrecasteaux his life, and those of two ofhis lieutenants, besides several of his crew.
Captain Dillon, a shrewd old Pacific sailor, was the first to findunmistakable traces of the wrecks.  On the 15th of May, 1824, hisvessel, the St. Patrick, passed close to Tikopia, one of the NewHebrides.  There a Lascar came alongside in a canoe, sold him thehandle of a sword in silver that bore the print of characters engravedon the hilt.  The Lascar pretended that six years before, during a stayat Vanikoro, he had seen two Europeans that belonged to some vesselsthat had run aground on the reefs some years ago.
Dillon guessed that he meant La Perouse, whose disappearance hadtroubled the whole world.  He tried to get on to Vanikoro, where,according to the Lascar, he would find numerous debris of the wreck,but winds and tides prevented him.
Dillon returned to Calcutta.  There he interested the Asiatic Societyand the Indian Company in his discovery.  A vessel, to which was giventhe name of the Recherche, was put at his disposal, and he set out,23rd January, 1827, accompanied by a French agent.
The Recherche, after touching at several points in the Pacific, castanchor before Vanikoro, 7th July, 1827, in that same harbour of Vanouwhere the Nautilus was at this time.
There it collected numerous relics of the wreck--iron utensils,anchors, pulley-strops, swivel-guns, an 18 lb. shot, fragments ofastronomical instruments, a piece of crown work, and a bronze clock,bearing this inscription--"Bazin m'a fait," the mark of the foundry ofthe arsenal at Brest about 1785.  There could be no further doubt.
Dillon, having made all inquiries, stayed in the unlucky place tillOctober.  Then he quitted Vanikoro, and directed his course towards NewZealand; put into Calcutta, 7th April, 1828, and returned to France,where he was warmly welcomed by Charles X.
But at the same time, without knowing Dillon's movements, Dumontd'Urville had already set out to find the scene of the wreck.  And theyhad learned from a whaler that some medals and a cross of St. Louis hadbeen found in the hands of some savages of Louisiade and New Caledonia.Dumont d'Urville, commander of the Astrolabe, had then sailed, and twomonths after Dillon had left Vanikoro he put into Hobart Town.  Therehe learned the results of Dillon's inquiries, and found that a certainJames Hobbs, second lieutenant of the Union of Calcutta, after landingon an island situated 8° 18' S. lat., and 156° 30' E. long.,had seen some iron bars and red stuffs used by the natives of theseparts.  Dumont d'Urville, much perplexed, and not knowing how to creditthe reports of low-class journals, decided to follow Dillon's track.
On the 10th of February, 1828, the Astrolabe appeared off Tikopia, andtook as guide and interpreter a deserter found on the island; made hisway to Vanikoro, sighted it on the 12th inst., lay among the reefsuntil the 14th, and not until the 20th did he cast anchor within thebarrier in the harbour of Vanou.
On the 23rd, several officers went round the island and brought backsome unimportant trifles.  The natives, adopting a system of denialsand evasions, refused to take them to the unlucky place.  Thisambiguous conduct led them to believe that the natives had ill-treatedthe castaways, and indeed they seemed to fear that Dumont d'Urville hadcome to avenge La Perouse and his unfortunate crew.
However, on the 26th, appeased by some presents, and understanding thatthey had no reprisals to fear, they led M. Jacquireot to the scene ofthe wreck.
There, in three or four fathoms of water, between the reefs of Pacouand Vanou, lay anchors, cannons, pigs of lead and iron, embedded in thelimy concretions.  The large boat and the whaler belonging to theAstrolabe were sent to this place, and, not without some difficulty,their crews hauled up an anchor weighing 1,800 lbs., a brass gun, somepigs of iron, and two copper swivel-guns.
Dumont d'Urville, questioning the natives, learned too that La Perouse,after losing both his vessels on the reefs of this island, hadconstructed a smaller boat, only to be lost a second time.  Where, noone knew.
But the French Government, fearing that Dumont d'Urville was notacquainted with Dillon's movements, had sent the sloop Bayonnaise,commanded by Legoarant de Tromelin, to Vanikoro, which had beenstationed on the west coast of America.  The Bayonnaise cast her anchorbefore Vanikoro some months after the departure of the Astrolabe, butfound no new document; but stated that the savages had respected themonument to La Perouse.  That is the substance of what I told CaptainNemo.
"So," he said, "no one knows now where the third vessel perished thatwas constructed by the castaways on the island of Vanikoro?"
"No one knows."
Captain Nemo said nothing, but signed to me to follow him into thelarge saloon.  The Nautilus sank several yards below the waves, and thepanels were opened.
I hastened to the aperture, and under the crustations of coral, coveredwith fungi, syphonules, alcyons, madrepores, through myriads ofcharming fish--girelles, glyphisidri, pompherides, diacopes, andholocentres--I recognised certain debris that the drags had not beenable to tear up--iron stirrups, anchors, cannons, bullets, capstanfittings, the stem of a ship, all objects clearly proving the wreck ofsome vessel, and now carpeted with living flowers. While I was lookingon this desolate scene, Captain Nemo said, in a sad voice:
"Commander La Perouse set out 7th December, 1785, with his vessels LaBoussole and the Astrolabe.  He first cast anchor at Botany Bay,visited the Friendly Isles, New Caledonia, then directed his coursetowards Santa Cruz, and put into Namouka, one of the Hapai group.  Thenhis vessels struck on the unknown reefs of Vanikoro.  The Boussole,which went first, ran aground on the southerly coast.  The Astrolabewent to its help, and ran aground too.  The first vessel was destroyedalmost immediately.  The second, stranded under the wind, resisted somedays.  The natives made the castaways welcome.  They installedthemselves in the island, and constructed a smaller boat with thedebris of the two large ones.  Some sailors stayed willingly atVanikoro; the others, weak and ill, set out with La Perouse.  Theydirected their course towards the Solomon Islands, and there perished,with everything, on the westerly coast of the chief island of thegroup, between Capes Deception and Satisfaction."
"How do you know that?"
"By this, that I found on the spot where was the last wreck."
Captain Nemo showed me a tin-plate box, stamped with the French arms,and corroded by the salt water.  He opened it, and I saw a bundle ofpapers, yellow but still readable.
They were the instructions of the naval minister to Commander LaPerouse, annotated in the margin in Louis XVI's handwriting.
"Ah! it is a fine death for a sailor!" said Captain Nemo, at last.  "Acoral tomb makes a quiet grave; and I trust that I and my comrades willfind no other."


CHAPTER XIX
TORRES STRAITS
During the night of the 27th or 28th of December, the Nautilus left theshores of Vanikoro with great speed.  Her course was south-westerly,and in three days she had gone over the 750 leagues that separated itfrom La Perouse's group and the south-east point of Papua.
Early on the 1st of January, 1863, Conseil joined me on the platform.
"Master, will you permit me to wish you a happy New Year?"
"What!  Conseil; exactly as if I was at Paris in my study at the Jardindes Plantes?  Well, I accept your good wishes, and thank you for them.Only, I will ask you what you mean by a `Happy New Year' under ourcircumstances?  Do you mean the year that will bring us to the end ofour imprisonment, or the year that sees us continue this strangevoyage?"
"Really, I do not know how to answer, master.  We are sure to seecurious things, and for the last two months we have not had time fordullness.  The last marvel is always the most astonishing; and, if wecontinue this progression, I do not know how it will end.  It is myopinion that we shall never again see the like.  I think then, with nooffence to master, that a happy year would be one in which we could seeeverything."
On 2nd January we had made 11,340 miles, or 5,250 French leagues, sinceour starting-point in the Japan Seas.  Before the ship's head stretchedthe dangerous shores of the coral sea, on the north-east coast ofAustralia.  Our boat lay along some miles from the redoubtable bank onwhich Cook's vessel was lost, 10th June, 1770.  The boat in which Cookwas struck on a rock, and, if it did not sink, it was owing to a pieceof coral that was broken by the shock, and fixed itself in the brokenkeel.
I had wished to visit the reef, 360 leagues long, against which thesea, always rough, broke with great violence, with a noise likethunder.  But just then the inclined planes drew the Nautilus down to agreat depth, and I could see nothing of the high coral walls.  I had tocontent myself with the different specimens of fish brought up by thenets.  I remarked, among others, some germons, a species of mackerel aslarge as a tunny, with bluish sides, and striped with transverse bands,that disappear with the animal's life.
These fish followed us in shoals, and furnished us with very delicatefood. We took also a large number of gilt-heads, about one and a halfinches long, tasting like dorys; and flying pyrapeds like submarineswallows, which, in dark nights, light alternately the air and waterwith their phosphorescent light. Among the molluscs and zoophytes, Ifound in the meshes of the net several species of alcyonarians, echini,hammers, spurs, dials, cerites, and hyalleae. The flora was representedby beautiful floating seaweeds, laminariae, and macrocystes,impregnated with the mucilage that transudes through their pores; andamong which I gathered an admirable Nemastoma Geliniarois, that wasclassed among the natural curiosities of the museum.
Two days after crossing the coral sea, 4th January, we sighted thePapuan coasts.  On this occasion, Captain Nemo informed me that hisintention was to get into the Indian Ocean by the Strait of Torres.His communication ended there.
The Torres Straits are nearly thirty-four leagues wide; but they areobstructed by an innumerable quantity of islands, islets, breakers, androcks, that make its navigation almost impracticable; so that CaptainNemo took all needful precautions to cross them.  The Nautilus,floating betwixt wind and water, went at a moderate pace.  Her screw,like a cetacean's tail, beat the waves slowly.
Profiting by this, I and my two companions went up on to the desertedplatform.  Before us was the steersman's cage, and I expected thatCaptain Nemo was there directing the course of the Nautilus.  I hadbefore me the excellent charts of the Straits of Torres, and Iconsulted them attentively.  Round the Nautilus the sea dashedfuriously.  The course of the waves, that went from south-east tonorth-west at the rate of two and a half miles, broke on the coral thatshowed itself here and there.
"This is a bad sea!" remarked Ned Land.
"Detestable indeed, and one that does not suit a boat like theNautilus."
"The Captain must be very sure of his route, for I see there pieces ofcoral that would do for its keel if it only touched them slightly."
Indeed the situation was dangerous, but the Nautilus seemed to slidelike magic off these rocks.  It did not follow the routes of theAstrolabe and the Zelee exactly, for they proved fatal to Dumontd'Urville. It bore more northwards, coasted the Islands of Murray, andcame back to the south-west towards Cumberland Passage.  I thought itwas going to pass it by, when, going back to north-west, it wentthrough a large quantity of islands and islets little known, towardsthe Island Sound and Canal Mauvais.
I wondered if Captain Nemo, foolishly imprudent, would steer his vesselinto that pass where Dumont d'Urville's two corvettes touched; when,swerving again, and cutting straight through to the west, he steeredfor the Island of Gilboa.
It was then three in the afternoon.  The tide began to recede, beingquite full.  The Nautilus approached the island, that I still saw, withits remarkable border of screw-pines. He stood off it at about twomiles distant.  Suddenly a shock overthrew me.  The Nautilus justtouched a rock, and stayed immovable, laying lightly to port side.
When I rose, I perceived Captain Nemo and his lieutenant on theplatform.  They were examining the situation of the vessel, andexchanging words in their incomprehensible dialect.
She was situated thus:  Two miles, on the starboard side, appearedGilboa, stretching from north to west like an immense arm.  Towards thesouth and east some coral showed itself, left by the ebb.  We had runaground, and in one of those seas where the tides are middling--a sorrymatter for the floating of the Nautilus.  However, the vessel had notsuffered, for her keel was solidly joined.  But, if she could neitherglide off nor move, she ran the risk of being for ever fastened tothese rocks, and then Captain Nemo's submarine vessel would be done for.
I was reflecting thus, when the Captain, cool and calm, always masterof himself, approached me.
"An accident?"  I asked.
"No; an incident."
"But an incident that will oblige you perhaps to become an inhabitantof this land from which you flee?"
Captain Nemo looked at me curiously, and made a negative gesture, asmuch as to say that nothing would force him to set foot on terra firmaagain.  Then he said:
"Besides, M. Aronnax, the Nautilus is not lost; it will carry you yetinto the midst of the marvels of the ocean.  Our voyage is only begun,and I do not wish to be deprived so soon of the honour of your company."
"However, Captain Nemo," I replied, without noticing the ironical turnof his phrase, "the Nautilus ran aground in open sea.  Now the tidesare not strong in the Pacific; and, if you cannot lighten the Nautilus,I do not see how it will be reinflated."
"The tides are not strong in the Pacific:  you are right there,Professor; but in Torres Straits one finds still a difference of a yardand a half between the level of high and low seas.  To-day is 4thJanuary, and in five days the moon will be full.  Now, I shall be verymuch astonished if that satellite does not raise these masses of watersufficiently, and render me a service that I should be indebted to herfor."
Having said this, Captain Nemo, followed by his lieutenant, redescendedto the interior of the Nautilus.  As to the vessel, it moved not, andwas immovable, as if the coralline polypi had already walled it up withtheir in destructible cement.
"Well, sir?" said Ned Land, who came up to me after the departure ofthe Captain.
"Well, friend Ned, we will wait patiently for the tide on the 9thinstant; for it appears that the moon will have the goodness to put itoff again."
"Really?"
"Really."
"And this Captain is not going to cast anchor at all since the tidewill suffice?" said Conseil, simply.
The Canadian looked at Conseil, then shrugged his shoulders.
"Sir, you may believe me when I tell you that this piece of iron willnavigate neither on nor under the sea again; it is only fit to be soldfor its weight.  I think, therefore, that the time has come to partcompany with Captain Nemo."
"Friend Ned, I do not despair of this stout Nautilus, as you do; and infour days we shall know what to hold to on the Pacific tides.  Besides,flight might be possible if we were in sight of the English orProvencal coast; but on the Papuan shores, it is another thing; and itwill be time enough to come to that extremity if the Nautilus does notrecover itself again, which I look upon as a grave event."
"But do they know, at least, how to act circumspectly?  There is anisland; on that island there are trees; under those trees, terrestrialanimals, bearers of cutlets and roast beef, to which I would willinglygive a trial."
"In this, friend Ned is right," said Conseil, "and I agree with him.Could not master obtain permission from his friend Captain Nemo to putus on land, if only so as not to lose the habit of treading on thesolid parts of our planet?"
"I can ask him, but he will refuse."
"Will master risk it?" asked Conseil, "and we shall know how to relyupon the Captain's amiability."
To my great surprise, Captain Nemo gave me the permission I asked for,and he gave it very agreeably, without even exacting from me a promiseto return to the vessel; but flight across New Guinea might be veryperilous, and I should not have counselled Ned Land to attempt it.Better to be a prisoner on board the Nautilus than to fall into thehands of the natives.
At eight o'clock, armed with guns and hatchets, we got off theNautilus.  The sea was pretty calm; a slight breeze blew on land.Conseil and I rowing, we sped along quickly, and Ned steered in thestraight passage that the breakers left between them.  The boat waswell handled, and moved rapidly.
Ned Land could not restrain his joy.  He was like a prisoner that hadescaped from prison, and knew not that it was necessary to re-enter it.
"Meat!  We are going to eat some meat; and what meat!" he replied."Real game! no, bread, indeed."
"I do not say that fish is not good; we must not abuse it; but a pieceof fresh venison, grilled on live coals, will agreeably vary ourordinary course."
"Glutton!" said Conseil, "he makes my mouth water."
"It remains to be seen," I said, "if these forests are full of game,and if the game is not such as will hunt the hunter himself."
"Well said, M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian, whose teeth seemedsharpened like the edge of a hatchet; "but I will eat tiger--loin oftiger--if there is no other quadruped on this island."
"Friend Ned is uneasy about it," said Conseil.
"Whatever it may be," continued Ned Land, "every animal with four pawswithout feathers, or with two paws without feathers, will be saluted bymy first shot."
"Very well!  Master Land's imprudences are beginning."
"Never fear, M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian; "I do not wanttwenty-five minutes to offer you a dish, of my sort."
At half-past eight the Nautilus boat ran softly aground on a heavysand, after having happily passed the coral reef that surrounds theIsland of Gilboa.


CHAPTER XX
A FEW DAYS ON LAND
I was much impressed on touching land.  Ned Land tried the soil withhis feet, as if to take possession of it.  However, it was only twomonths before that we had become, according to Captain Nemo,"passengers on board the Nautilus," but, in reality, prisoners of itscommander.
In a few minutes we were within musket-shot of the coast.  The wholehorizon was hidden behind a beautiful curtain of forests.  Enormoustrees, the trunks of which attained a height of 200 feet, were tied toeach other by garlands of bindweed, real natural hammocks, which alight breeze rocked.  They were mimosas, figs, hibisci, and palm trees,mingled together in profusion; and under the shelter of their verdantvault grew orchids, leguminous plants, and ferns.
But, without noticing all these beautiful specimens of Papuan flora,the Canadian abandoned the agreeable for the useful.  He discovered acoco-tree, beat down some of the fruit, broke them, and we drunk themilk and ate the nut with a satisfaction that protested against theordinary food on the Nautilus.
"Excellent!" said Ned Land.
"Exquisite!" replied Conseil.
"And I do not think," said the Canadian, "that he would object to ourintroducing a cargo of coco-nuts on board."
"I do not think he would, but he would not taste them."
"So much the worse for him," said Conseil.
"And so much the better for us," replied Ned Land.  "There will be morefor us."
"One word only, Master Land," I said to the harpooner, who wasbeginning to ravage another coco-nut tree.  "Coco-nuts are good things,but before filling the canoe with them it would be wise to reconnoitreand see if the island does not produce some substance not less useful.Fresh vegetables would be welcome on board the Nautilus."
"Master is right," replied Conseil; "and I propose to reserve threeplaces in our vessel, one for fruits, the other for vegetables, and thethird for the venison, of which I have not yet seen the smallestspecimen."
"Conseil, we must not despair," said the Canadian.
"Let us continue," I returned, "and lie in wait.  Although the islandseems uninhabited, it might still contain some individuals that wouldbe less hard than we on the nature of game."
"Ho! ho!" said Ned Land, moving his jaws significantly.
"Well, Ned!" said Conseil.
"My word!" returned the Canadian, "I begin to understand the charms ofanthropophagy."
"Ned!  Ned! what are you saying?  You, a man-eater? I should not feelsafe with you, especially as I share your cabin.  I might perhaps wakeone day to find myself half devoured."
"Friend Conseil, I like you much, but not enough to eat youunnecessarily."
"I would not trust you," replied Conseil.  "But enough.  We mustabsolutely bring down some game to satisfy this cannibal, or else oneof these fine mornings, master will find only pieces of his servant toserve him."
While we were talking thus, we were penetrating the sombre arches ofthe forest, and for two hours we surveyed it in all directions.
Chance rewarded our search for eatable vegetables, and one of the mostuseful products of the tropical zones furnished us with precious foodthat we missed on board.  I would speak of the bread-fruit tree, veryabundant in the island of Gilboa; and I remarked chiefly the varietydestitute of seeds, which bears in Malaya the name of "rima."
Ned Land knew these fruits well.  He had already eaten many during hisnumerous voyages, and he knew how to prepare the eatable substance.Moreover, the sight of them excited him, and he could contain himselfno longer.
"Master," he said, "I shall die if I do not taste a little of thisbread-fruit pie."
"Taste it, friend Ned--taste it as you want.  We are here to makeexperiments--make them."
"It won't take long," said the Canadian.
And, provided with a lentil, he lighted a fire of dead wood thatcrackled joyously.  During this time, Conseil and I chose the bestfruits of the bread-fruit. Some had not then attained a sufficientdegree of maturity; and their thick skin covered a white but ratherfibrous pulp.  Others, the greater number yellow and gelatinous, waitedonly to be picked.
These fruits enclosed no kernel.  Conseil brought a dozen to Ned Land,who placed them on a coal fire, after having cut them in thick slices,and while doing this repeating:
"You will see, master, how good this bread is.  More so when one hasbeen deprived of it so long.  It is not even bread," added he, "but adelicate pastry.  You have eaten none, master?"
"No, Ned."
"Very well, prepare yourself for a juicy thing.  If you do not come formore, I am no longer the king of harpooners."
After some minutes, the part of the fruits that was exposed to the firewas completely roasted.  The interior looked like a white pasty, a sortof soft crumb, the flavour of which was like that of an artichoke.
It must be confessed this bread was excellent, and I ate of it withgreat relish.
"What time is it now?" asked the Canadian.
"Two o'clock at least," replied Conseil.
"How time flies on firm ground!" sighed Ned Land.
"Let us be off," replied Conseil.
We returned through the forest, and completed our collection by a raidupon the cabbage-palms, that we gathered from the tops of the trees,little beans that I recognised as the "abrou" of the Malays, and yamsof a superior quality.
We were loaded when we reached the boat.  But Ned Land did not find hisprovisions sufficient.  Fate, however, favoured us.  Just as we werepushing off, he perceived several trees, from twenty-five to thirtyfeet high, a species of palm-tree.
At last, at five o'clock in the evening, loaded with our riches, wequitted the shore, and half an hour after we hailed the Nautilus.  Noone appeared on our arrival.  The enormous iron-plated cylinder seemeddeserted.  The provisions embarked, I descended to my chamber, andafter supper slept soundly.
The next day, 6th January, nothing new on board.  Not a sound inside,not a sign of life.  The boat rested along the edge, in the same placein which we had left it.  We resolved to return to the island.  NedLand hoped to be more fortunate than on the day before with regard tothe hunt, and wished to visit another part of the forest.
At dawn we set off.  The boat, carried on by the waves that flowed toshore, reached the island in a few minutes.
We landed, and, thinking that it was better to give in to the Canadian,we followed Ned Land, whose long limbs threatened to distance us.  Hewound up the coast towards the west:  then, fording some torrents, hegained the high plain that was bordered with admirable forests.  Somekingfishers were rambling along the water-courses, but they would notlet themselves be approached.  Their circumspection proved to me thatthese birds knew what to expect from bipeds of our species, and Iconcluded that, if the island was not inhabited, at least human beingsoccasionally frequented it.
After crossing a rather large prairie, we arrived at the skirts of alittle wood that was enlivened by the songs and flight of a largenumber of birds.
"There are only birds," said Conseil.
"But they are eatable," replied the harpooner.
"I do not agree with you, friend Ned, for I see only parrots there."
"Friend Conseil," said Ned, gravely, "the parrot is like pheasant tothose who have nothing else."
"And," I added, "this bird, suitably prepared, is worth knife and fork."
Indeed, under the thick foliage of this wood, a world of parrots wereflying from branch to branch, only needing a careful education to speakthe human language.  For the moment, they were chattering with parrotsof all colours, and grave cockatoos, who seemed to meditate upon somephilosophical problem, whilst brilliant red lories passed like a pieceof bunting carried away by the breeze, papuans, with the finest azurecolours, and in all a variety of winged things most charming to behold,but few eatable.
However, a bird peculiar to these lands, and which has never passed thelimits of the Arrow and Papuan islands, was wanting in this collection.But fortune reserved it for me before long.
After passing through a moderately thick copse, we found a plainobstructed with bushes.  I saw then those magnificent birds, thedisposition of whose long feathers obliges them to fly against thewind.  Their undulating flight, graceful aerial curves, and the shadingof their colours, attracted and charmed one's looks.  I had no troublein recognising them.
"Birds of paradise!"  I exclaimed.
The Malays, who carry on a great trade in these birds with the Chinese,have several means that we could not employ for taking them.  Sometimesthey put snares on the top of high trees that the birds of paradiseprefer to frequent.  Sometimes they catch them with a viscous birdlimethat paralyses their movements.  They even go so far as to poison thefountains that the birds generally drink from.  But we were obliged tofire at them during flight, which gave us few chances to bring themdown; and, indeed, we vainly exhausted one half our ammunition.
About eleven o'clock in the morning, the first range of mountains thatform the centre of the island was traversed, and we had killed nothing.Hunger drove us on.  The hunters had relied on the products of thechase, and they were wrong.  Happily Conseil, to his great surprise,made a double shot and secured breakfast.  He brought down a whitepigeon and a wood-pigeon, which, cleverly plucked and suspended from askewer, was roasted before a red fire of dead wood.  While theseinteresting birds were cooking, Ned prepared the fruit of thebread-tree. Then the wood-pigeons were devoured to the bones, anddeclared excellent.  The nutmeg, with which they are in the habit ofstuffing their crops, flavours their flesh and renders it deliciouseating.
"Now, Ned, what do you miss now?"
"Some four-footed game, M. Aronnax.  All these pigeons are onlyside-dishes and trifles; and until I have killed an animal with cutletsI shall not be content."
"Nor I, Ned, if I do not catch a bird of paradise."
"Let us continue hunting," replied Conseil.  "Let us go towards thesea.  We have arrived at the first declivities of the mountains, and Ithink we had better regain the region of forests."
That was sensible advice, and was followed out.  After walking for onehour we had attained a forest of sago-trees. Some inoffensive serpentsglided away from us.  The birds of paradise fled at our approach, andtruly I despaired of getting near one when Conseil, who was walking infront, suddenly bent down, uttered a triumphal cry, and came back to mebringing a magnificent specimen.
"Ah! bravo, Conseil!"
"Master is very good."
"No, my boy; you have made an excellent stroke.  Take one of theseliving birds, and carry it in your hand."
"If master will examine it, he will see that I have not deserved greatmerit."
"Why, Conseil?"
"Because this bird is as drunk as a quail."
"Drunk!"
"Yes, sir; drunk with the nutmegs that it devoured under thenutmeg-tree, under which I found it.  See, friend Ned, see themonstrous effects of intemperance!"
"By Jove!" exclaimed the Canadian, "because I have drunk gin for twomonths, you must needs reproach me!"
However, I examined the curious bird.  Conseil was right.  The bird,drunk with the juice, was quite powerless.  It could not fly; it couldhardly walk.
This bird belonged to the most beautiful of the eight species that arefound in Papua and in the neighbouring islands.  It was the "largeemerald bird, the most rare kind." It measured three feet in length.Its head was comparatively small, its eyes placed near the opening ofthe beak, and also small.  But the shades of colour were beautiful,having a yellow beak, brown feet and claws, nut-coloured wings withpurple tips, pale yellow at the back of the neck and head, and emeraldcolour at the throat, chestnut on the breast and belly.  Two horned,downy nets rose from below the tail, that prolonged the long lightfeathers of admirable fineness, and they completed the whole of thismarvellous bird, that the natives have poetically named the "bird ofthe sun."
But if my wishes were satisfied by the possession of the bird ofparadise, the Canadian's were not yet.  Happily, about two o'clock, NedLand brought down a magnificent hog; from the brood of those thenatives call "bari-outang." The animal came in time for us to procurereal quadruped meat, and he was well received.  Ned Land was very proudof his shot.  The hog, hit by the electric ball, fell stone dead.  TheCanadian skinned and cleaned it properly, after having taken half adozen cutlets, destined to furnish us with a grilled repast in theevening.  Then the hunt was resumed, which was still more marked by Nedand Conseil's exploits.
Indeed, the two friends, beating the bushes, roused a herd of kangaroosthat fled and bounded along on their elastic paws.  But these animalsdid not take to flight so rapidly but what the electric capsule couldstop their course.
"Ah, Professor!" cried Ned Land, who was carried away by the delightsof the chase, "what excellent game, and stewed, too!  What a supply forthe Nautilus!  Two! three! five down!  And to think that we shall eatthat flesh, and that the idiots on board shall not have a crumb!"
I think that, in the excess of his joy, the Canadian, if he had nottalked so much, would have killed them all.  But he contented himselfwith a single dozen of these interesting marsupians.  These animalswere small.  They were a species of those "kangaroo rabbits" that livehabitually in the hollows of trees, and whose speed is extreme; butthey are moderately fat, and furnish, at least, estimable food.  Wewere very satisfied with the results of the hunt.  Happy Ned proposedto return to this enchanting island the next day, for he wished todepopulate it of all the eatable quadrupeds.  But he had reckonedwithout his host.
At six o'clock in the evening we had regained the shore; our boat wasmoored to the usual place.  The Nautilus, like a long rock, emergedfrom the waves two miles from the beach.  Ned Land, without waiting,occupied himself about the important dinner business.  He understoodall about cooking well.  The "bari-outang," grilled on the coals, soonscented the air with a delicious odour.
Indeed, the dinner was excellent.  Two wood-pigeons completed thisextraordinary menu.  The sago pasty, the artocarpus bread, somemangoes, half a dozen pineapples, and the liquor fermented from somecoco-nuts, overjoyed us.  I even think that my worthy companions' ideashad not all the plainness desirable.
"Suppose we do not return to the Nautilus this evening?" said Conseil.
"Suppose we never return?" added Ned Land.
Just then a stone fell at our feet and cut short the harpooner'sproposition.


CHAPTER XXI
CAPTAIN NEMO'S THUNDERBOLT
We looked at the edge of the forest without rising, my hand stopping inthe action of putting it to my mouth, Ned Land's completing its office.
"Stones do not fall from the sky," remarked Conseil, "or they wouldmerit the name aerolites."
A second stone, carefully aimed, that made a savoury pigeon's leg fallfrom Conseil's hand, gave still more weight to his observation.  We allthree arose, shouldered our guns, and were ready to reply to any attack.
"Are they apes?" cried Ned Land.
"Very nearly--they are savages."
"To the boat!"  I said, hurrying to the sea.
It was indeed necessary to beat a retreat, for about twenty nativesarmed with bows and slings appeared on the skirts of a copse thatmasked the horizon to the right, hardly a hundred steps from us.
Our boat was moored about sixty feet from us.  The savages approachedus, not running, but making hostile demonstrations.  Stones and arrowsfell thickly.
Ned Land had not wished to leave his provisions; and, in spite of hisimminent danger, his pig on one side and kangaroos on the other, hewent tolerably fast.  In two minutes we were on the shore.  To load theboat with provisions and arms, to push it out to sea, and ship theoars, was the work of an instant.  We had not gone two cable-lengths,when a hundred savages, howling and gesticulating, entered the water upto their waists.  I watched to see if their apparition would attractsome men from the Nautilus on to the platform.  But no.  The enormousmachine, lying off, was absolutely deserted.
Twenty minutes later we were on board.  The panels were open.  Aftermaking the boat fast, we entered into the interior of the Nautilus.
I descended to the drawing-room, from whence I heard some chords.Captain Nemo was there, bending over his organ, and plunged in amusical ecstasy.
"Captain!"
He did not hear me.
"Captain!"  I said, touching his hand.
He shuddered, and, turning round, said, "Ah! it is you, Professor?Well, have you had a good hunt, have you botanised successfully?"
"Yes Captain; but we have unfortunately brought a troop of bipeds,whose vicinity troubles me."
"What bipeds?"
"Savages."
"Savages!" he echoed, ironically.  "So you are astonished, Professor,at having set foot on a strange land and finding savages?  Savages!where are there not any?  Besides, are they worse than others, thesewhom you call savages?"
"But Captain----"
"How many have you counted?"
"A hundred at least."
"M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, placing his fingers on the organstops, "when all the natives of Papua are assembled on this shore, theNautilus will have nothing to fear from their attacks."
The Captain's fingers were then running over the keys of theinstrument, and I remarked that he touched only the black keys, whichgave his melodies an essentially Scotch character.  Soon he hadforgotten my presence, and had plunged into a reverie that I did notdisturb.  I went up again on to the platform: night had already fallen;for, in this low latitude, the sun sets rapidly and without twilight.I could only see the island indistinctly; but the numerous fires,lighted on the beach, showed that the natives did not think of leavingit.  I was alone for several hours, sometimes thinking of thenatives--but without any dread of them, for the imperturbableconfidence of the Captain was catching--sometimes forgetting them toadmire the splendours of the night in the tropics.  My remembranceswent to France in the train of those zodiacal stars that would shine insome hours' time.  The moon shone in the midst of the constellations ofthe zenith.
The night slipped away without any mischance, the islanders frightenedno doubt at the sight of a monster aground in the bay.  The panels wereopen, and would have offered an easy access to the interior of theNautilus.
At six o'clock in the morning of the 8th January I went up on to theplatform.  The dawn was breaking.  The island soon showed itselfthrough the dissipating fogs, first the shore, then the summits.
The natives were there, more numerous than on the day before--five orsix hundred perhaps--some of them, profiting by the low water, had comeon to the coral, at less than two cable-lengths from the Nautilus.  Idistinguished them easily; they were true Papuans, with athleticfigures, men of good race, large high foreheads, large, but not broadand flat, and white teeth.  Their woolly hair, with a reddish tinge,showed off on their black shining bodies like those of the Nubians.From the lobes of their ears, cut and distended, hung chaplets ofbones.  Most of these savages were naked.  Amongst them, I remarkedsome women, dressed from the hips to knees in quite a crinoline ofherbs, that sustained a vegetable waistband.  Some chiefs hadornamented their necks with a crescent and collars of glass beads, redand white; nearly all were armed with bows, arrows, and shields andcarried on their shoulders a sort of net containing those round stoneswhich they cast from their slings with great skill.  One of thesechiefs, rather near to the Nautilus, examined it attentively.  He was,perhaps, a "mado" of high rank, for he was draped in a mat ofbanana-leaves, notched round the edges, and set off with brilliantcolours.
I could easily have knocked down this native, who was within a shortlength; but I thought that it was better to wait for real hostiledemonstrations.  Between Europeans and savages, it is proper for theEuropeans to parry sharply, not to attack.
During low water the natives roamed about near the Nautilus, but werenot troublesome; I heard them frequently repeat the word "Assai," andby their gestures I understood that they invited me to go on land, aninvitation that I declined.
So that, on that day, the boat did not push off, to the greatdispleasure of Master Land, who could not complete his provisions.
This adroit Canadian employed his time in preparing the viands and meatthat he had brought off the island.  As for the savages, they returnedto the shore about eleven o'clock in the morning, as soon as the coraltops began to disappear under the rising tide; but I saw their numbershad increased considerably on the shore.  Probably they came from theneighbouring islands, or very likely from Papua.  However, I had notseen a single native canoe.  Having nothing better to do, I thought ofdragging these beautiful limpid waters, under which I saw a profusionof shells, zoophytes, and marine plants.  Moreover, it was the last daythat the Nautilus would pass in these parts, if it float in open seathe next day, according to Captain Nemo's promise.
I therefore called Conseil, who brought me a little light drag, verylike those for the oyster fishery.  Now to work!  For two hours wefished unceasingly, but without bringing up any rarities.  The drag wasfilled with midas-ears, harps, melames, and particularly the mostbeautiful hammers I have ever seen.  We also brought up some sea-slugs,pearl-oysters, and a dozen little turtles that were reserved for thepantry on board.
But just when I expected it least, I put my hand on a wonder, I mightsay a natural deformity, very rarely met with.  Conseil was justdragging, and his net came up filled with divers ordinary shells, when,all at once, he saw me plunge my arm quickly into the net, to draw outa shell, and heard me utter a cry.
"What is the matter, sir?" he asked in surprise.  "Has master beenbitten?"
"No, my boy; but I would willingly have given a finger for mydiscovery."
"What discovery?"
"This shell," I said, holding up the object of my triumph.
"It is simply an olive porphyry, genus olive, order of thepectinibranchidae, class of gasteropods, sub-class mollusca."
"Yes, Conseil; but, instead of being rolled from right to left, thisolive turns from left to right."
"Is it possible?"
"Yes, my boy; it is a left shell."
Shells are all right-handed, with rare exceptions; and, when by chancetheir spiral is left, amateurs are ready to pay their weight in gold.
Conseil and I were absorbed in the contemplation of our treasure, and Iwas promising myself to enrich the museum with it, when a stoneunfortunately thrown by a native struck against, and broke, theprecious object in Conseil's hand.  I uttered a cry of despair!Conseil took up his gun, and aimed at a savage who was poising hissling at ten yards from him.  I would have stopped him, but his blowtook effect and broke the bracelet of amulets which encircled the armof the savage.
"Conseil!" cried I. "Conseil!"
"Well, sir! do you not see that the cannibal has commenced the attack?"
"A shell is not worth the life of a man," said I.
"Ah! the scoundrel!" cried Conseil; "I would rather he had broken myshoulder!"
Conseil was in earnest, but I was not of his opinion.  However, thesituation had changed some minutes before, and we had not perceived.  Ascore of canoes surrounded the Nautilus.  These canoes, scooped out ofthe trunk of a tree, long, narrow, well adapted for speed, werebalanced by means of a long bamboo pole, which floated on the water.They were managed by skilful, half-naked paddlers, and I watched theiradvance with some uneasiness.  It was evident that these Papuans hadalready had dealings with the Europeans and knew their ships.  But thislong iron cylinder anchored in the bay, without masts or chimneys, whatcould they think of it?  Nothing good, for at first they kept at arespectful distance.  However, seeing it motionless, by degrees theytook courage, and sought to familiarise themselves with it.  Now thisfamiliarity was precisely what it was necessary to avoid.  Our arms,which were noiseless, could only produce a moderate effect on thesavages, who have little respect for aught but blustering things.  Thethunderbolt without the reverberations of thunder would frighten manbut little, though the danger lies in the lightning, not in the noise.
At this moment the canoes approached the Nautilus, and a shower ofarrows alighted on her.
I went down to the saloon, but found no one there.  I ventured to knockat the door that opened into the Captain's room.  "Come in," was theanswer.
I entered, and found Captain Nemo deep in algebraical calculations of_x_ and other quantities.
"I am disturbing you," said I, for courtesy's sake.
"That is true, M. Aronnax," replied the Captain; "but I think you haveserious reasons for wishing to see me?"
"Very grave ones; the natives are surrounding us in their canoes, andin a few minutes we shall certainly be attacked by many hundreds ofsavages."
"Ah!" said Captain Nemo quietly, "they are come with their canoes?"
"Yes, sir."
"Well, sir, we must close the hatches."
"Exactly, and I came to say to you----"
"Nothing can be more simple," said Captain Nemo.  And, pressing anelectric button, he transmitted an order to the ship's crew.
"It is all done, sir," said he, after some moments.  "The pinnace isready, and the hatches are closed.  You do not fear, I imagine, thatthese gentlemen could stave in walls on which the balls of your frigatehave had no effect?"
"No, Captain; but a danger still exists."
"What is that, sir?"
"It is that to-morrow, at about this hour, we must open the hatches torenew the air of the Nautilus.  Now, if, at this moment, the Papuansshould occupy the platform, I do not see how you could prevent themfrom entering."
"Then, sir, you suppose that they will board us?"
"I am certain of it."
"Well, sir, let them come.  I see no reason for hindering them.  Afterall, these Papuans are poor creatures, and I am unwilling that my visitto the island should cost the life of a single one of these wretches."
Upon that I was going away; But Captain Nemo detained me, and asked meto sit down by him.  He questioned me with interest about ourexcursions on shore, and our hunting; and seemed not to understand thecraving for meat that possessed the Canadian.  Then the conversationturned on various subjects, and, without being more communicative,Captain Nemo showed himself more amiable.
Amongst other things, we happened to speak of the situation of theNautilus, run aground in exactly the same spot in this strait whereDumont d'Urville was nearly lost.  Apropos of this:
"This D'Urville was one of your great sailors," said the Captain to me,"one of your most intelligent navigators.  He is the Captain Cook ofyou Frenchmen.  Unfortunate man of science, after having braved theicebergs of the South Pole, the coral reefs of Oceania, the cannibalsof the Pacific, to perish miserably in a railway train!  If thisenergetic man could have reflected during the last moments of his life,what must have been uppermost in his last thoughts, do you suppose?"
So speaking, Captain Nemo seemed moved, and his emotion gave me abetter opinion of him.  Then, chart in hand, we reviewed the travels ofthe French navigator, his voyages of circumnavigation, his doubledetention at the South Pole, which led to the discovery of Adelaide andLouis Philippe, and fixing the hydrographical bearings of the principalislands of Oceania.
"That which your D'Urville has done on the surface of the seas," saidCaptain Nemo, "that have I done under them, and more easily, morecompletely than he.  The Astrolabe and the Zelee, incessantly tossedabout by the hurricane, could not be worth the Nautilus, quietrepository of labour that she is, truly motionless in the midst of thewaters.
"To-morrow," added the Captain, rising, "to-morrow, at twenty minutesto three p.m., the Nautilus shall float, and leave the Strait of Torresuninjured."
Having curtly pronounced these words, Captain Nemo bowed slightly.This was to dismiss me, and I went back to my room.
There I found Conseil, who wished to know the result of my interviewwith the Captain.
"My boy," said I, "when I feigned to believe that his Nautilus wasthreatened by the natives of Papua, the Captain answered me verysarcastically.  I have but one thing to say to you: Have confidence inhim, and go to sleep in peace."
"Have you no need of my services, sir?"
"No, my friend.  What is Ned Land doing?"
"If you will excuse me, sir," answered Conseil, "friend Ned is busymaking a kangaroo-pie which will be a marvel."
I remained alone and went to bed, but slept indifferently.  I heard thenoise of the savages, who stamped on the platform, uttering deafeningcries.  The night passed thus, without disturbing the ordinary reposeof the crew.  The presence of these cannibals affected them no morethan the soldiers of a masked battery care for the ants that crawl overits front.
At six in the morning I rose.  The hatches had not been opened.  Theinner air was not renewed, but the reservoirs, filled ready for anyemergency, were now resorted to, and discharged several cubic feet ofoxygen into the exhausted atmosphere of the Nautilus.
I worked in my room till noon, without having seen Captain Nemo, evenfor an instant.  On board no preparations for departure were visible.
I waited still some time, then went into the large saloon.  The clockmarked half-past two.  In ten minutes it would be high-tide: and, ifCaptain Nemo had not made a rash promise, the Nautilus would beimmediately detached.  If not, many months would pass ere she couldleave her bed of coral.
However, some warning vibrations began to be felt in the vessel.  Iheard the keel grating against the rough calcareous bottom of the coralreef.
At five-and-twenty minutes to three, Captain Nemo appeared in thesaloon.
"We are going to start," said he.
"Ah!" replied I.
"I have given the order to open the hatches."
"And the Papuans?"
"The Papuans?" answered Captain Nemo, slightly shrugging his shoulders.
"Will they not come inside the Nautilus?"
"How?"
"Only by leaping over the hatches you have opened."
"M. Aronnax," quietly answered Captain Nemo, "they will not enter thehatches of the Nautilus in that way, even if they were open."
I looked at the Captain.
"You do not understand?" said he.
"Hardly."
"Well, come and you will see."
I directed my steps towards the central staircase.  There Ned Land andConseil were slyly watching some of the ship's crew, who were openingthe hatches, while cries of rage and fearful vociferations resoundedoutside.
The port lids were pulled down outside.  Twenty horrible facesappeared.  But the first native who placed his hand on the stair-rail,struck from behind by some invisible force, I know not what, fled,uttering the most fearful cries and making the wildest contortions.
Ten of his companions followed him.  They met with the same fate.
Conseil was in ecstasy.  Ned Land, carried away by his violentinstincts, rushed on to the staircase.  But the moment he seized therail with both hands, he, in his turn, was overthrown.
"I am struck by a thunderbolt," cried he, with an oath.
This explained all.  It was no rail; but a metallic cable charged withelectricity from the deck communicating with the platform.  Whoevertouched it felt a powerful shock--and this shock would have been mortalif Captain Nemo had discharged into the conductor the whole force ofthe current.  It might truly be said that between his assailants andhimself he had stretched a network of electricity which none could passwith impunity.
Meanwhile, the exasperated Papuans had beaten a retreat paralysed withterror.  As for us, half laughing, we consoled and rubbed theunfortunate Ned Land, who swore like one possessed.
But at this moment the Nautilus, raised by the last waves of the tide,quitted her coral bed exactly at the fortieth minute fixed by theCaptain.  Her screw swept the waters slowly and majestically.  Herspeed increased gradually, and, sailing on the surface of the ocean,she quitted safe and sound the dangerous passes of the Straits ofTorres.


CHAPTER XXII
"AEGRI SOMNIA"
The following day 10th January, the Nautilus continued her coursebetween two seas, but with such remarkable speed that I could notestimate it at less than thirty-five miles an hour.  The rapidity ofher screw was such that I could neither follow nor count itsrevolutions.  When I reflected that this marvellous electric agent,after having afforded motion, heat, and light to the Nautilus, stillprotected her from outward attack, and transformed her into an ark ofsafety which no profane hand might touch without being thunderstricken,my admiration was unbounded, and from the structure it extended to theengineer who had called it into existence.
Our course was directed to the west, and on the 11th of January wedoubled Cape Wessel, situation in 135° long. and 10° S. lat.,which forms the east point of the Gulf of Carpentaria.  The reefs werestill numerous, but more equalised, and marked on the chart withextreme precision.  The Nautilus easily avoided the breakers of Moneyto port and the Victoria reefs to starboard, placed at 130° long.and on the 10th parallel, which we strictly followed.
On the 13th of January, Captain Nemo arrived in the Sea of Timor, andrecognised the island of that name in 122° long.
From this point the direction of the Nautilus inclined towards thesouth-west. Her head was set for the Indian Ocean.  Where would thefancy of Captain Nemo carry us next?  Would he return to the coast ofAsia or would he approach again the shores of Europe?  Improbableconjectures both, to a man who fled from inhabited continents.  Thenwould he descend to the south?  Was he going to double the Cape of GoodHope, then Cape Horn, and finally go as far as the Antarctic pole?Would he come back at last to the Pacific, where his Nautilus couldsail free and independently?  Time would show.
After having skirted the sands of Cartier, of Hibernia, Seringapatam,and Scott, last efforts of the solid against the liquid element, on the14th of January we lost sight of land altogether.  The speed of theNautilus was considerably abated, and with irregular course shesometimes swam in the bosom of the waters, sometimes floated on theirsurface.
During this period of the voyage, Captain Nemo made some interestingexperiments on the varied temperature of the sea, in different beds.Under ordinary conditions these observations are made by means ofrather complicated instruments, and with somewhat doubtful results, bymeans of thermometrical sounding-leads, the glasses often breakingunder the pressure of the water, or an apparatus grounded on thevariations of the resistance of metals to the electric currents.Results so obtained could not be correctly calculated.  On thecontrary, Captain Nemo went himself to test the temperature in thedepths of the sea, and his thermometer, placed in communication withthe different sheets of water, gave him the required degree immediatelyand accurately.
It was thus that, either by overloading her reservoirs or by descendingobliquely by means of her inclined planes, the Nautilus successivelyattained the depth of three, four, five, seven, nine, and ten thousandyards, and the definite result of this experience was that the seapreserved an average temperature of four degrees and a half at a depthof five thousand fathoms under all latitudes.
On the 16th of January, the Nautilus seemed becalmed only a few yardsbeneath the surface of the waves.  Her electric apparatus remainedinactive and her motionless screw left her to drift at the mercy of thecurrents.  I supposed that the crew was occupied with interior repairs,rendered necessary by the violence of the mechanical movements of themachine.
My companions and I then witnessed a curious spectacle.  The hatches ofthe saloon were open, and, as the beacon light of the Nautilus was notin action, a dim obscurity reigned in the midst of the waters.  Iobserved the state of the sea, under these conditions, and the largestfish appeared to me no more than scarcely defined shadows, when theNautilus found herself suddenly transported into full light.  I thoughtat first that the beacon had been lighted, and was casting its electricradiance into the liquid mass.  I was mistaken, and after a rapidsurvey perceived my error.
The Nautilus floated in the midst of a phosphorescent bed which, inthis obscurity, became quite dazzling.  It was produced by myriads ofluminous animalculae, whose brilliancy was increased as they glidedover the metallic hull of the vessel.  I was surprised by lightning inthe midst of these luminous sheets, as though they had been rivulets oflead melted in an ardent furnace or metallic masses brought to a whiteheat, so that, by force of contrast, certain portions of light appearedto cast a shade in the midst of the general ignition, from which allshade seemed banished.  No; this was not the calm irradiation of ourordinary lightning.  There was unusual life and vigour: this was trulyliving light!
In reality, it was an infinite agglomeration of coloured infusoria, ofveritable globules of jelly, provided with a threadlike tentacle, andof which as many as twenty-five thousand have been counted in less thantwo cubic half-inches of water.
During several hours the Nautilus floated in these brilliant waves, andour admiration increased as we watched the marine monsters disportingthemselves like salamanders.  I saw there in the midst of this firethat burns not the swift and elegant porpoise (the indefatigable clownof the ocean), and some swordfish ten feet long, those propheticheralds of the hurricane whose formidable sword would now and thenstrike the glass of the saloon.  Then appeared the smaller fish, thebalista, the leaping mackerel, wolf-thorn-tails, and a hundred otherswhich striped the luminous atmosphere as they swam.  This dazzlingspectacle was enchanting!  Perhaps some atmospheric condition increasedthe intensity of this phenomenon.  Perhaps some storm agitated thesurface of the waves.  But at this depth of some yards, the Nautiluswas unmoved by its fury and reposed peacefully in still water.
So we progressed, incessantly charmed by some new marvel.  The dayspassed rapidly away, and I took no account of them.  Ned, according tohabit, tried to vary the diet on board.  Like snails, we were fixed toour shells, and I declare it is easy to lead a snail's life.
Thus this life seemed easy and natural, and we thought no longer of thelife we led on land; but something happened to recall us to thestrangeness of our situation.
On the 18th of January, the Nautilus was in 105° long. and 15°S. lat.  The weather was threatening, the sea rough and rolling.  Therewas a strong east wind.  The barometer, which had been going down forsome days, foreboded a coming storm.  I went up on to the platform justas the second lieutenant was taking the measure of the horary angles,and waited, according to habit till the daily phrase was said.  But onthis day it was exchanged for another phrase not less incomprehensible.Almost directly, I saw Captain Nemo appear with a glass, lookingtowards the horizon.
For some minutes he was immovable, without taking his eye off the pointof observation.  Then he lowered his glass and exchanged a few wordswith his lieutenant.  The latter seemed to be a victim to some emotionthat he tried in vain to repress.  Captain Nemo, having more commandover himself, was cool.  He seemed, too, to be making some objectionsto which the lieutenant replied by formal assurances.  At least Iconcluded so by the difference of their tones and gestures.  Formyself, I had looked carefully in the direction indicated withoutseeing anything.  The sky and water were lost in the clear line of thehorizon.
However, Captain Nemo walked from one end of the platform to the other,without looking at me, perhaps without seeing me.  His step was firm,but less regular than usual.  He stopped sometimes, crossed his arms,and observed the sea.  What could he be looking for on that immenseexpanse?
The Nautilus was then some hundreds of miles from the nearest coast.
The lieutenant had taken up the glass and examined the horizonsteadfastly, going and coming, stamping his foot and showing morenervous agitation than his superior officer.  Besides, this mysterymust necessarily be solved, and before long; for, upon an order fromCaptain Nemo, the engine, increasing its propelling power, made thescrew turn more rapidly.
Just then the lieutenant drew the Captain's attention again.  Thelatter stopped walking and directed his glass towards the placeindicated.  He looked long.  I felt very much puzzled, and descended tothe drawing-room, and took out an excellent telescope that I generallyused.  Then, leaning on the cage of the watch-light that jutted outfrom the front of the platform, set myself to look over all the line ofthe sky and sea.
But my eye was no sooner applied to the glass than it was quicklysnatched out of my hands.
I turned round.  Captain Nemo was before me, but I did not know him.His face was transfigured.  His eyes flashed sullenly; his teeth wereset; his stiff body, clenched fists, and head shrunk between hisshoulders, betrayed the violent agitation that pervaded his wholeframe.  He did not move.  My glass, fallen from his hands, had rolledat his feet.
Had I unwittingly provoked this fit of anger?  Did thisincomprehensible person imagine that I had discovered some forbiddensecret?  No; I was not the object of this hatred, for he was notlooking at me; his eye was steadily fixed upon the impenetrable pointof the horizon.  At last Captain Nemo recovered himself.  His agitationsubsided.  He addressed some words in a foreign language to hislieutenant, then turned to me.  "M. Aronnax," he said, in rather animperious tone, "I require you to keep one of the conditions that bindyou to me."
"What is it, Captain?"
"You must be confined, with your companions, until I think fit torelease you."
"You are the master," I replied, looking steadily at him.  "But may Iask you one question?"
"None, sir."
There was no resisting this imperious command, it would have beenuseless.  I went down to the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil,and told them the Captain's determination.  You may judge how thiscommunication was received by the Canadian.
But there was not time for altercation.  Four of the crew waited at thedoor, and conducted us to that cell where we had passed our first nighton board the Nautilus.
Ned Land would have remonstrated, but the door was shut upon him.
"Will master tell me what this means?" asked Conseil.
I told my companions what had passed.  They were as much astonished asI, and equally at a loss how to account for it.
Meanwhile, I was absorbed in my own reflections, and could think ofnothing but the strange fear depicted in the Captain's countenance.  Iwas utterly at a loss to account for it, when my cogitations weredisturbed by these words from Ned Land:
"Hallo! breakfast is ready."
And indeed the table was laid.  Evidently Captain Nemo had given thisorder at the same time that he had hastened the speed of the Nautilus.
"Will master permit me to make a recommendation?" asked Conseil.
"Yes, my boy."
"Well, it is that master breakfasts.  It is prudent, for we do not knowwhat may happen."
"You are right, Conseil."
"Unfortunately," said Ned Land, "they have only given us the ship'sfare."
"Friend Ned," asked Conseil, "what would you have said if the breakfasthad been entirely forgotten?"
This argument cut short the harpooner's recriminations.
We sat down to table.  The meal was eaten in silence.
Just then the luminous globe that lighted the cell went out, and leftus in total darkness.  Ned Land was soon asleep, and what astonished mewas that Conseil went off into a heavy slumber.  I was thinking whatcould have caused his irresistible drowsiness, when I felt my brainbecoming stupefied.  In spite of my efforts to keep my eyes open, theywould close.  A painful suspicion seized me.  Evidently soporificsubstances had been mixed with the food we had just taken.Imprisonment was not enough to conceal Captain Nemo's projects from us,sleep was more necessary.  I then heard the panels shut.  Theundulations of the sea, which caused a slight rolling motion, ceased.Had the Nautilus quitted the surface of the ocean?  Had it gone back tothe motionless bed of water?  I tried to resist sleep.  It wasimpossible.  My breathing grew weak.  I felt a mortal cold freeze mystiffened and half-paralysed limbs.  My eye lids, like leaden caps,fell over my eyes.  I could not raise them; a morbid sleep, full ofhallucinations, bereft me of my being.  Then the visions disappeared,and left me in complete insensibility.


CHAPTER XXIII
THE CORAL KINGDOM
The next day I woke with my head singularly clear.  To my greatsurprise, I was in my own room.  My companions, no doubt, had beenreinstated in their cabin, without having perceived it any more than I.Of what had passed during the night they were as ignorant as I was, andto penetrate this mystery I only reckoned upon the chances of thefuture.
I then thought of quitting my room.  Was I free again or a prisoner?Quite free.  I opened the door, went to the half-deck, went up thecentral stairs.  The panels, shut the evening before, were open.  Iwent on to the platform.
Ned Land and Conseil waited there for me.  I questioned them; they knewnothing.  Lost in a heavy sleep in which they had been totallyunconscious, they had been astonished at finding themselves in theircabin.
As for the Nautilus, it seemed quiet and mysterious as ever.  Itfloated on the surface of the waves at a moderate pace.  Nothing seemedchanged on board.
The second lieutenant then came on to the platform, and gave the usualorder below.
As for Captain Nemo, he did not appear.
Of the people on board, I only saw the impassive steward, who served mewith his usual dumb regularity.
About two o'clock, I was in the drawing-room, busied in arranging mynotes, when the Captain opened the door and appeared.  I bowed.  Hemade a slight inclination in return, without speaking.  I resumed mywork, hoping that he would perhaps give me some explanation of theevents of the preceding night.  He made none.  I looked at him.  Heseemed fatigued; his heavy eyes had not been refreshed by sleep; hisface looked very sorrowful.  He walked to and fro, sat down and got upagain, took a chance book, put it down, consulted his instrumentswithout taking his habitual notes, and seemed restless and uneasy.  Atlast, he came up to me, and said:
"Are you a doctor, M. Aronnax?"
I so little expected such a question that I stared some time at himwithout answering.
"Are you a doctor?" he repeated.  "Several of your colleagues havestudied medicine."
"Well," said I, "I am a doctor and resident surgeon to the hospital.  Ipractised several years before entering the museum."
"Very well, sir."
My answer had evidently satisfied the Captain.  But, not knowing whathe would say next, I waited for other questions, reserving my answersaccording to circumstances.
"M. Aronnax, will you consent to prescribe for one of my men?" he asked.
"Is he ill?"
"Yes."
"I am ready to follow you."
"Come, then."
I own my heart beat, I do not know why.  I saw certain connectionbetween the illness of one of the crew and the events of the daybefore; and this mystery interested me at least as much as the sick man.
Captain Nemo conducted me to the poop of the Nautilus, and took me intoa cabin situated near the sailors' quarters.
There, on a bed, lay a man about forty years of age, with a resoluteexpression of countenance, a true type of an Anglo-Saxon.
I leant over him.  He was not only ill, he was wounded.  His head,swathed in bandages covered with blood, lay on a pillow.  I undid thebandages, and the wounded man looked at me with his large eyes and gaveno sign of pain as I did it.  It was a horrible wound.  The skull,shattered by some deadly weapon, left the brain exposed, which was muchinjured.  Clots of blood had formed in the bruised and broken mass, incolour like the dregs of wine.
There was both contusion and suffusion of the brain.  His breathing wasslow, and some spasmodic movements of the muscles agitated his face.  Ifelt his pulse.  It was intermittent.  The extremities of the body weregrowing cold already, and I saw death must inevitably ensue.  Afterdressing the unfortunate man's wounds, I readjusted the bandages on hishead, and turned to Captain Nemo.
"What caused this wound?"  I asked.
"What does it signify?" he replied, evasively.  "A shock has broken oneof the levers of the engine, which struck myself.  But your opinion asto his state?"
I hesitated before giving it.
"You may speak," said the Captain.  "This man does not understandFrench."
I gave a last look at the wounded man.
"He will be dead in two hours."
"Can nothing save him?"
"Nothing."
Captain Nemo's hand contracted, and some tears glistened in his eyes,which I thought incapable of shedding any.
For some moments I still watched the dying man, whose life ebbedslowly.  His pallor increased under the electric light that was shedover his death-bed. I looked at his intelligent forehead, furrowed withpremature wrinkles, produced probably by misfortune and sorrow.  Itried to learn the secret of his life from the last words that escapedhis lips.
"You can go now, M. Aronnax," said the Captain.
I left him in the dying man's cabin, and returned to my room muchaffected by this scene.  During the whole day, I was haunted byuncomfortable suspicions, and at night I slept badly, and between mybroken dreams I fancied I heard distant sighs like the notes of afuneral psalm.  Were they the prayers of the dead, murmured in thatlanguage that I could not understand?
The next morning I went on to the bridge.  Captain Nemo was therebefore me.  As soon as he perceived me he came to me.
"Professor, will it be convenient to you to make a submarine excursionto-day?"
"With my companions?"  I asked.
"If they like."
"We obey your orders, Captain."
"Will you be so good then as to put on your cork jackets?"
It was not a question of dead or dying.  I rejoined Ned Land andConseil, and told them of Captain Nemo's proposition.  Conseil hastenedto accept it, and this time the Canadian seemed quite willing to followour example.
It was eight o'clock in the morning.  At half-past eight we wereequipped for this new excursion, and provided with two contrivances forlight and breathing.  The double door was open; and, accompanied byCaptain Nemo, who was followed by a dozen of the crew, we set foot, ata depth of about thirty feet, on the solid bottom on which the Nautilusrested.
A slight declivity ended in an uneven bottom, at fifteen fathoms depth.This bottom differed entirely from the one I had visited on my firstexcursion under the waters of the Pacific Ocean.  Here, there was nofine sand, no submarine prairies, no sea-forest. I immediatelyrecognised that marvellous region in which, on that day, the Captaindid the honours to us.  It was the coral kingdom.
The light produced a thousand charming varieties, playing in the midstof the branches that were so vividly coloured.  I seemed to see themembraneous and cylindrical tubes tremble beneath the undulation of thewaters.  I was tempted to gather their fresh petals, ornamented withdelicate tentacles, some just blown, the others budding, while a smallfish, swimming swiftly, touched them slightly, like flights of birds.But if my hand approached these living flowers, these animated,sensitive plants, the whole colony took alarm.  The white petalsre-entered their red cases, the flowers faded as I looked, and the bushchanged into a block of stony knobs.
Chance had thrown me just by the most precious specimens of thezoophyte.  This coral was more valuable than that found in theMediterranean, on the coasts of France, Italy and Barbary.  Its tintsjustified the poetical names of "Flower of Blood," and "Froth ofBlood," that trade has given to its most beautiful productions.  Coralis sold for L20 per ounce; and in this place the watery beds would makethe fortunes of a company of coral-divers. This precious matter, oftenconfused with other polypi, formed then the inextricable plots called"macciota," and on which I noticed several beautiful specimens of pinkcoral.
But soon the bushes contract, and the arborisations increase. Realpetrified thickets, long joints of fantastic architecture, weredisclosed before us. Captain Nemo placed himself under a dark gallery,where by a slight declivity we reached a depth of a hundred yards. Thelight from our lamps produced sometimes magical effects, following therough outlines of the natural arches and pendants disposed likelustres, that were tipped with points of fire.
At last, after walking two hours, we had attained a depth of aboutthree hundred yards, that is to say, the extreme limit on which coralbegins to form.  But there was no isolated bush, nor modest brushwood,at the bottom of lofty trees.  It was an immense forest of largemineral vegetations, enormous petrified trees, united by garlands ofelegant sea-bindweed, all adorned with clouds and reflections.  Wepassed freely under their high branches, lost in the shade of the waves.
Captain Nemo had stopped.  I and my companions halted, and, turninground, I saw his men were forming a semi-circle round their chief.Watching attentively, I observed that four of them carried on theirshoulders an object of an oblong shape.
We occupied, in this place, the centre of a vast glade surrounded bythe lofty foliage of the submarine forest.  Our lamps threw over thisplace a sort of clear twilight that singularly elongated the shadows onthe ground.  At the end of the glade the darkness increased, and wasonly relieved by little sparks reflected by the points of coral.
Ned Land and Conseil were near me.  We watched, and I thought I wasgoing to witness a strange scene.  On observing the ground, I saw thatit was raised in certain places by slight excrescences encrusted withlimy deposits, and disposed with a regularity that betrayed the hand ofman.
In the midst of the glade, on a pedestal of rocks roughly piled up,stood a cross of coral that extended its long arms that one might havethought were made of petrified blood.  Upon a sign from Captain Nemoone of the men advanced; and at some feet from the cross he began todig a hole with a pickaxe that he took from his belt.  I understoodall!  This glade was a cemetery, this hole a tomb, this oblong objectthe body of the man who had died in the night!  The Captain and his menhad come to bury their companion in this general resting-place, at thebottom of this inaccessible ocean!
The grave was being dug slowly; the fish fled on all sides while theirretreat was being thus disturbed; I heard the strokes of the pickaxe,which sparkled when it hit upon some flint lost at the bottom of thewaters.  The hole was soon large and deep enough to receive the body.Then the bearers approached; the body, enveloped in a tissue of whitelinen, was lowered into the damp grave.  Captain Nemo, with his armscrossed on his breast, and all the friends of him who had loved them,knelt in prayer.
The grave was then filled in with the rubbish taken from the ground,which formed a slight mound.  When this was done, Captain Nemo and hismen rose; then, approaching the grave, they knelt again, and allextended their hands in sign of a last adieu.  Then the funeralprocession returned to the Nautilus, passing under the arches of theforest, in the midst of thickets, along the coral bushes, and still onthe ascent.  At last the light of the ship appeared, and its luminoustrack guided us to the Nautilus.  At one o'clock we had returned.
As soon as I had changed my clothes I went up on to the platform, and,a prey to conflicting emotions, I sat down near the binnacle.  CaptainNemo joined me.  I rose and said to him:
"So, as I said he would, this man died in the night?"
"Yes, M. Aronnax."
"And he rests now, near his companions, in the coral cemetery?"
"Yes, forgotten by all else, but not by us.  We dug the grave, and thepolypi undertake to seal our dead for eternity." And, burying his facequickly in his hands, he tried in vain to suppress a sob.  Then headded:  "Our peaceful cemetery is there, some hundred feet below thesurface of the waves."
"Your dead sleep quietly, at least, Captain, out of the reach ofsharks."
"Yes, sir, of sharks and men," gravely replied the Captain.


PART TWO


CHAPTER I
THE INDIAN OCEAN
We now come to the second part of our journey under the sea.  The firstended with the moving scene in the coral cemetery which left such adeep impression on my mind.  Thus, in the midst of this great sea,Captain Nemo's life was passing, even to his grave, which he hadprepared in one of its deepest abysses.  There, not one of the ocean'smonsters could trouble the last sleep of the crew of the Nautilus, ofthose friends riveted to each other in death as in life.  "Nor any man,either," had added the Captain.  Still the same fierce, implacabledefiance towards human society!
I could no longer content myself with the theory which satisfiedConseil.
That worthy fellow persisted in seeing in the Commander of the Nautilusone of those unknown _savants_ who return mankind contempt forindifference.  For him, he was a misunderstood genius who, tired ofearth's deceptions, had taken refuge in this inaccessible medium, wherehe might follow his instincts freely.  To my mind, this explains butone side of Captain Nemo's character.  Indeed, the mystery of that lastnight during which we had been chained in prison, the sleep, and theprecaution so violently taken by the Captain of snatching from my eyesthe glass I had raised to sweep the horizon, the mortal wound of theman, due to an unaccountable shock of the Nautilus, all put me on a newtrack.  No; Captain Nemo was not satisfied with shunning man.  Hisformidable apparatus not only suited his instinct of freedom, butperhaps also the design of some terrible retaliation.
At this moment nothing is clear to me; I catch but a glimpse of lightamidst all the darkness, and I must confine myself to writing as eventsshall dictate.
That day, the 24th of January, 1868, at noon, the second officer cameto take the altitude of the sun.  I mounted the platform, lit a cigar,and watched the operation.  It seemed to me that the man did notunderstand French; for several times I made remarks in a loud voice,which must have drawn from him some involuntary sign of attention, ifhe had understood them; but he remained undisturbed and dumb.
As he was taking observations with the sextant, one of the sailors ofthe Nautilus (the strong man who had accompanied us on our firstsubmarine excursion to the Island of Crespo) came to clean the glassesof the lantern.  I examined the fittings of the apparatus, the strengthof which was increased a hundredfold by lenticular rings, placedsimilar to those in a lighthouse, and which projected their brilliancein a horizontal plane.  The electric lamp was combined in such a way asto give its most powerful light.  Indeed, it was produced in vacuo,which insured both its steadiness and its intensity.  This vacuumeconomised the graphite points between which the luminous arc wasdeveloped--an important point of economy for Captain Nemo, who couldnot easily have replaced them; and under these conditions their wastewas imperceptible.  When the Nautilus was ready to continue itssubmarine journey, I went down to the saloon.  The panel was closed,and the course marked direct west.
We were furrowing the waters of the Indian Ocean, a vast liquid plain,with a surface of 1,200,000,000 of acres, and whose waters are so clearand transparent that any one leaning over them would turn giddy.  TheNautilus usually floated between fifty and a hundred fathoms deep.  Wewent on so for some days.  To anyone but myself, who had a great lovefor the sea, the hours would have seemed long and monotonous; but thedaily walks on the platform, when I steeped myself in the reviving airof the ocean, the sight of the rich waters through the windows of thesaloon, the books in the library, the compiling of my memoirs, took upall my time, and left me not a moment of ennui or weariness.
For some days we saw a great number of aquatic birds, sea-mews orgulls.  Some were cleverly killed and, prepared in a certain way, madevery acceptable water-game. Amongst large-winged birds, carried a longdistance from all lands and resting upon the waves from the fatigue oftheir flight, I saw some magnificent albatrosses, uttering discordantcries like the braying of an ass, and birds belonging to the family ofthe long-wings.
As to the fish, they always provoked our admiration when we surprisedthe secrets of their aquatic life through the open panels.  I saw manykinds which I never before had a chance of observing.
I shall notice chiefly ostracions peculiar to the Red Sea, the IndianOcean, and that part which washes the coast of tropical America. Thesefishes, like the tortoise, the armadillo, the sea-hedgehog, and theCrustacea, are protected by a breastplate which is neither chalky norstony, but real bone. In some it takes the form of a solid triangle, inothers of a solid quadrangle. Amongst the triangular I saw some an inchand a half in length, with wholesome flesh and a delicious flavour;they are brown at the tail, and yellow at the fins, and I recommendtheir introduction into fresh water, to which a certain number ofsea-fish easily accustom themselves. I would also mention quadrangularostracions, having on the back four large tubercles; some dotted overwith white spots on the lower part of the body, and which may be tamedlike birds; trigons provided with spikes formed by the lengthening oftheir bony shell, and which, from their strange gruntings, are called"seapigs"; also dromedaries with large humps in the shape of a cone,whose flesh is very tough and leathery.
I now borrow from the daily notes of Master Conseil. "Certain fish ofthe genus petrodon peculiar to those seas, with red backs and whitechests, which are distinguished by three rows of longitudinalfilaments; and some electrical, seven inches long, decked in theliveliest colours.  Then, as specimens of other kinds, some ovoides,resembling an egg of a dark brown colour, marked with white bands, andwithout tails; diodons, real sea-porcupines, furnished with spikes, andcapable of swelling in such a way as to look like cushions bristlingwith darts; hippocampi, common to every ocean; some pegasi withlengthened snouts, which their pectoral fins, being much elongated andformed in the shape of wings, allow, if not to fly, at least to shootinto the air; pigeon spatulae, with tails covered with many rings ofshell; macrognathi with long jaws, an excellent fish, nine inches long,and bright with most agreeable colours; pale-coloured calliomores, withrugged heads; and plenty of chaetpdons, with long and tubular muzzles,which kill insects by shooting them, as from an air-gun, with a singledrop of water. These we may call the flycatchers of the seas.
"In the eighty-ninth genus of fishes, classed by Lacepede, belonging tothe second lower class of bony, characterised by opercules andbronchial membranes, I remarked the scorpaena, the head of which isfurnished with spikes, and which has but one dorsal fin; thesecreatures are covered, or not, with little shells, according to thesub-class to which they belong. The second sub-class gives us specimensof didactyles fourteen or fifteen inches in length, with yellow rays,and heads of a most fantastic appearance. As to the first sub-class, itgives several specimens of that singular looking fish appropriatelycalled a 'seafrog,' with large head, sometimes pierced with holes,sometimes swollen with protuberances, bristling with spikes, andcovered with tubercles; it has irregular and hideous horns; its bodyand tail are covered with callosities; its sting makes a dangerouswound; it is both repugnant and horrible to look at."
From the 21st to the 23rd of January the Nautilus went at the rate oftwo hundred and fifty leagues in twenty-four hours, being five hundredand forty miles, or twenty-two miles an hour.  If we recognised so manydifferent varieties of fish, it was because, attracted by the electriclight, they tried to follow us; the greater part, however, were soondistanced by our speed, though some kept their place in the waters ofthe Nautilus for a time.  The morning of the 24th, in 12° 5' S.lat., and 94° 33' long., we observed Keeling Island, a coralformation, planted with magnificent cocos, and which had been visitedby Mr. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy.  The Nautilus skirted the shores ofthis desert island for a little distance.  Its nets brought up numerousspecimens of polypi and curious shells of mollusca.  Some preciousproductions of the species of delphinulae enriched the treasures ofCaptain Nemo, to which I added an astraea punctifera, a kind ofparasite polypus often found fixed to a shell.
Soon Keeling Island disappeared from the horizon, and our course wasdirected to the north-west in the direction of the Indian Peninsula.
From Keeling Island our course was slower and more variable, oftentaking us into great depths.  Several times they made use of theinclined planes, which certain internal levers placed obliquely to thewaterline.  In that way we went about two miles, but without everobtaining the greatest depths of the Indian Sea, which soundings ofseven thousand fathoms have never reached.  As to the temperature ofthe lower strata, the thermometer invariably indicated 4° abovezero.  I only observed that in the upper regions the water was alwayscolder in the high levels than at the surface of the sea.
On the 25th of January the ocean was entirely deserted; the Nautiluspassed the day on the surface, beating the waves with its powerfulscrew and making them rebound to a great height.  Who under suchcircumstances would not have taken it for a gigantic cetacean?  Threeparts of this day I spent on the platform.  I watched the sea.  Nothingon the horizon, till about four o'clock a steamer running west on ourcounter.  Her masts were visible for an instant, but she could not seethe Nautilus, being too low in the water.  I fancied this steamboatbelonged to the P.O. Company, which runs from Ceylon to Sydney,touching at King George's Point and Melbourne.
At five o'clock in the evening, before that fleeting twilight whichbinds night to day in tropical zones, Conseil and I were astonished bya curious spectacle.
It was a shoal of argonauts travelling along on the surface of theocean.  We could count several hundreds.  They belonged to the tuberclekind which are peculiar to the Indian seas.
These graceful molluscs moved backwards by means of their locomotivetube, through which they propelled the water already drawn in.  Oftheir eight tentacles, six were elongated, and stretched out floatingon the water, whilst the other two, rolled up flat, were spread to thewing like a light sail.  I saw their spiral-shaped and fluted shells,which Cuvier justly compares to an elegant skiff.  A boat indeed!  Itbears the creature which secretes it without its adhering to it.
For nearly an hour the Nautilus floated in the midst of this shoal ofmolluscs.  Then I know not what sudden fright they took.  But as if ata signal every sail was furled, the arms folded, the body drawn in, theshells turned over, changing their centre of gravity, and the wholefleet disappeared under the waves.  Never did the ships of a squadronmanoeuvre with more unity.
At that moment night fell suddenly, and the reeds, scarcely raised bythe breeze, lay peaceably under the sides of the Nautilus.
The next day, 26th of January, we cut the equator at the eighty-secondmeridian and entered the northern hemisphere.  During the day aformidable troop of sharks accompanied us, terrible creatures, whichmultiply in these seas and make them very dangerous.  They were"cestracio philippi" sharks, with brown backs and whitish bellies,armed with eleven rows of teeth--eyed sharks--their throat being markedwith a large black spot surrounded with white like an eye.  There werealso some Isabella sharks, with rounded snouts marked with dark spots.These powerful creatures often hurled themselves at the windows of thesaloon with such violence as to make us feel very insecure.  At suchtimes Ned Land was no longer master of himself.  He wanted to go to thesurface and harpoon the monsters, particularly certain smooth-houndsharks, whose mouth is studded with teeth like a mosaic; and largetiger-sharks nearly six yards long, the last named of which seemed toexcite him more particularly.  But the Nautilus, accelerating herspeed, easily left the most rapid of them behind.
The 27th of January, at the entrance of the vast Bay of Bengal, we metrepeatedly a forbidding spectacle, dead bodies floating on the surfaceof the water.  They were the dead of the Indian villages, carried bythe Ganges to the level of the sea, and which the vultures, the onlyundertakers of the country, had not been able to devour.  But thesharks did not fail to help them at their funeral work.
About seven o'clock in the evening, the Nautilus, half-immersed, wassailing in a sea of milk.  At first sight the ocean seemed lactified.Was it the effect of the lunar rays?  No; for the moon, scarcely twodays old, was still lying hidden under the horizon in the rays of thesun.  The whole sky, though lit by the sidereal rays, seemed black bycontrast with the whiteness of the waters.
Conseil could not believe his eyes, and questioned me as to the causeof this strange phenomenon.  Happily I was able to answer him.
"It is called a milk sea," I explained.  "A large extent of whitewavelets often to be seen on the coasts of Amboyna, and in these partsof the sea."
"But, sir," said Conseil, "can you tell me what causes such an effect?for I suppose the water is not really turned into milk."
"No, my boy; and the whiteness which surprises you is caused only bythe presence of myriads of infusoria, a sort of luminous little worm,gelatinous and without colour, of the thickness of a hair, and whoselength is not more than seven-thousandths of an inch.  These insectsadhere to one another sometimes for several leagues."
"Several leagues!" exclaimed Conseil.
"Yes, my boy; and you need not try to compute the number of theseinfusoria.  You will not be able, for, if I am not mistaken, ships havefloated on these milk seas for more than forty miles."
Towards midnight the sea suddenly resumed its usual colour; but behindus, even to the limits of the horizon, the sky reflected the whitenedwaves, and for a long time seemed impregnated with the vagueglimmerings of an aurora borealis.


CHAPTER II
A NOVEL PROPOSAL OF CAPTAIN NEMO'S
On the 28th of February, when at noon the Nautilus came to the surfaceof the sea, in 9° 4' N. lat., there was land in sight about eightmiles to westward.  The first thing I noticed was a range of mountainsabout two thousand feet high, the shapes of which were most capricious.On taking the bearings, I knew that we were nearing the island ofCeylon, the pearl which hangs from the lobe of the Indian Peninsula.
Captain Nemo and his second appeared at this moment.  The Captainglanced at the map.  Then turning to me, said:
"The Island of Ceylon, noted for its pearl-fisheries. Would you like tovisit one of them, M. Aronnax?"
"Certainly, Captain."
"Well, the thing is easy.  Though, if we see the fisheries, we shallnot see the fishermen.  The annual exportation has not yet begun.Never mind, I will give orders to make for the Gulf of Manaar, where weshall arrive in the night."
The Captain said something to his second, who immediately went out.Soon the Nautilus returned to her native element, and the manometershowed that she was about thirty feet deep.
"Well, sir," said Captain Nemo, "you and your companions shall visitthe Bank of Manaar, and if by chance some fisherman should be there, weshall see him at work."
"Agreed, Captain!"
"By the bye, M. Aronnax you are not afraid of sharks?"
"Sharks!" exclaimed I.
This question seemed a very hard one.
"Well?" continued Captain Nemo.
"I admit, Captain, that I am not yet very familiar with that kind offish."
"We are accustomed to them," replied Captain Nemo, "and in time youwill be too.  However, we shall be armed, and on the road we may beable to hunt some of the tribe.  It is interesting.  So, tillto-morrow, sir, and early."
This said in a careless tone, Captain Nemo left the saloon.  Now, ifyou were invited to hunt the bear in the mountains of Switzerland, whatwould you say?
"Very well! to-morrow we will go and hunt the bear." If you were askedto hunt the lion in the plains of Atlas, or the tiger in the Indianjungles, what would you say?
"Ha! ha! it seems we are going to hunt the tiger or the lion!" But whenyou are invited to hunt the shark in its natural element, you wouldperhaps reflect before accepting the invitation.  As for myself, Ipassed my hand over my forehead, on which stood large drops of coldperspiration.  "Let us reflect," said I, "and take our time.  Huntingotters in submarine forests, as we did in the Island of Crespo, willpass; but going up and down at the bottom of the sea, where one isalmost certain to meet sharks, is quite another thing!  I know wellthat in certain countries, particularly in the Andaman Islands, thenegroes never hesitate to attack them with a dagger in one hand and arunning noose in the other; but I also know that few who affront thosecreatures ever return alive.  However, I am not a negro, and if I wereI think a little hesitation in this case would not be ill-timed."
At this moment Conseil and the Canadian entered, quite composed, andeven joyous.  They knew not what awaited them.
"Faith, sir," said Ned Land, "your Captain Nemo--the devil takehim!--has just made us a very pleasant offer."
"Ah!" said I, "you know?"
"If agreeable to you, sir," interrupted Conseil, "the commander of theNautilus has invited us to visit the magnificent Ceylon fisheriesto-morrow, in your company; he did it kindly, and behaved like a realgentleman."
"He said nothing more?"
"Nothing more, sir, except that he had already spoken to you of thislittle walk."
"Sir," said Conseil, "would you give us some details of the pearlfishery?"
"As to the fishing itself," I asked, "or the incidents, which?"
"On the fishing," replied the Canadian; "before entering upon theground, it is as well to know something about it."
"Very well; sit down, my friends, and I will teach you."
Ned and Conseil seated themselves on an ottoman, and the first thingthe Canadian asked was:
"Sir, what is a pearl?"
"My worthy Ned," I answered, "to the poet, a pearl is a tear of thesea; to the Orientals, it is a drop of dew solidified; to the ladies,it is a jewel of an oblong shape, of a brilliancy of mother-of-pearlsubstance, which they wear on their fingers, their necks, or theirears; for the chemist it is a mixture of phosphate and carbonate oflime, with a little gelatine; and lastly, for naturalists, it is simplya morbid secretion of the organ that produces the mother-of-pearlamongst certain bivalves."
"Branch of molluscs," said Conseil.
"Precisely so, my learned Conseil; and, amongst these testacea theearshell, the tridacnae, the turbots, in a word, all those whichsecrete mother-of-pearl, that is, the blue, bluish, violet, or whitesubstance which lines the interior of their shells, are capable ofproducing pearls."
"Mussels too?" asked the Canadian.
"Yes, mussels of certain waters in Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Saxony,Bohemia, and France."
"Good!  For the future I shall pay attention," replied the Canadian.
"But," I continued, "the particular mollusc which secretes the pearl isthe pearl-oyster, the meleagrina margaritiferct, that preciouspintadine. The pearl is nothing but a nacreous formation, deposited ina globular form, either adhering to the oyster shell, or buried in thefolds of the creature. On the shell it is fast; in the flesh it isloose; but always has for a kernel a small hard substance, may be abarren egg, may be a grain of sand, around which the pearly matterdeposits itself year after year successively, and by thin concentriclayers."
"Are many pearls found in the same oyster?" asked Conseil.
"Yes, my boy.  Some are a perfect casket.  One oyster has beenmentioned, though I allow myself to doubt it, as having contained noless than a hundred and fifty sharks."
"A hundred and fifty sharks!" exclaimed Ned Land.
"Did I say sharks?" said I hurriedly.  "I meant to say a hundred andfifty pearls.  Sharks would not be sense."
"Certainly not," said Conseil; "but will you tell us now by what meansthey extract these pearls?"
"They proceed in various ways.  When they adhere to the shell, thefishermen often pull them off with pincers; but the most common way isto lay the oysters on mats of the seaweed which covers the banks.  Thusthey die in the open air; and at the end of ten days they are in aforward state of decomposition.  They are then plunged into largereservoirs of sea-water; then they are opened and washed."
"The price of these pearls varies according to their size?" askedConseil.
"Not only according to their size," I answered, "but also according totheir shape, their water (that is, their colour), and their lustre:that is, that bright and diapered sparkle which makes them so charmingto the eye.  The most beautiful are called virgin pearls, or paragons.They are formed alone in the tissue of the mollusc, are white, oftenopaque, and sometimes have the transparency of an opal; they aregenerally round or oval.  The round are made into bracelets, the ovalinto pendants, and, being more precious, are sold singly.  Thoseadhering to the shell of the oyster are more irregular in shape, andare sold by weight.  Lastly, in a lower order are classed those smallpearls known under the name of seed-pearls; they are sold by measure,and are especially used in embroidery for church ornaments."
"But," said Conseil, "is this pearl-fishery dangerous?"
"No," I answered, quickly; "particularly if certain precautions aretaken."
"What does one risk in such a calling?" said Ned Land, "the swallowingof some mouthfuls of sea-water?"
"As you say, Ned.  By the bye," said I, trying to take Captain Nemo'scareless tone, "are you afraid of sharks, brave Ned?"
"I!" replied the Canadian; "a harpooner by profession?  It is my tradeto make light of them."
"But," said I, "it is not a question of fishing for them with aniron-swivel, hoisting them into the vessel, cutting off their tailswith a blow of a chopper, ripping them up, and throwing their heartinto the sea!"
"Then, it is a question of----"
"Precisely."
"In the water?"
"In the water."
"Faith, with a good harpoon!  You know, sir, these sharks areill-fashioned beasts.  They turn on their bellies to seize you, and inthat time----"
Ned Land had a way of saying "seize" which made my blood run cold.
"Well, and you, Conseil, what do you think of sharks?"
"Me!" said Conseil.  "I will be frank, sir."
"So much the better," thought I.
"If you, sir, mean to face the sharks, I do not see why your faithfulservant should not face them with you."


CHAPTER III
A PEARL OF TEN MILLIONS
The next morning at four o'clock I was awakened by the steward whomCaptain Nemo had placed at my service.  I rose hurriedly, dressed, andwent into the saloon.
Captain Nemo was awaiting me.
"M. Aronnax," said he, "are you ready to start?"
"I am ready."
"Then please to follow me."
"And my companions, Captain?"
"They have been told and are waiting."
"Are we not to put on our diver's dresses?" asked I.
"Not yet.  I have not allowed the Nautilus to come too near this coast,and we are some distance from the Manaar Bank; but the boat is ready,and will take us to the exact point of disembarking, which will save usa long way.  It carries our diving apparatus, which we will put on whenwe begin our submarine journey."
Captain Nemo conducted me to the central staircase, which led on theplatform.  Ned and Conseil were already there, delighted at the idea ofthe "pleasure party" which was preparing.  Five sailors from theNautilus, with their oars, waited in the boat, which had been made fastagainst the side.
The night was still dark.  Layers of clouds covered the sky, allowingbut few stars to be seen.  I looked on the side where the land lay, andsaw nothing but a dark line enclosing three parts of the horizon, fromsouth-west to north west.  The Nautilus, having returned during thenight up the western coast of Ceylon, was now west of the bay, orrather gulf, formed by the mainland and the Island of Manaar.  There,under the dark waters, stretched the pintadine bank, an inexhaustiblefield of pearls, the length of which is more than twenty miles.
Captain Nemo, Ned Land, Conseil, and I took our places in the stern ofthe boat.  The master went to the tiller; his four companions leaned ontheir oars, the painter was cast off, and we sheered off.
The boat went towards the south; the oarsmen did not hurry.  I noticedthat their strokes, strong in the water, only followed each other everyten seconds, according to the method generally adopted in the navy.Whilst the craft was running by its own velocity, the liquid dropsstruck the dark depths of the waves crisply like spats of melted lead.A little billow, spreading wide, gave a slight roll to the boat, andsome samphire reeds flapped before it.
We were silent.  What was Captain Nemo thinking of?  Perhaps of theland he was approaching, and which he found too near to him, contraryto the Canadian's opinion, who thought it too far off.  As to Conseil,he was merely there from curiosity.
About half-past five the first tints on the horizon showed the upperline of coast more distinctly.  Flat enough in the east, it rose alittle to the south.  Five miles still lay between us, and it wasindistinct owing to the mist on the water.  At six o'clock it becamesuddenly daylight, with that rapidity peculiar to tropical regions,which know neither dawn nor twilight.  The solar rays pierced thecurtain of clouds, piled up on the eastern horizon, and the radiant orbrose rapidly.  I saw land distinctly, with a few trees scattered hereand there.  The boat neared Manaar Island, which was rounded to thesouth.  Captain Nemo rose from his seat and watched the sea.
At a sign from him the anchor was dropped, but the chain scarcely ran,for it was little more than a yard deep, and this spot was one of thehighest points of the bank of pintadines.
"Here we are, M. Aronnax," said Captain Nemo.  "You see that enclosedbay?  Here, in a month will be assembled the numerous fishing boats ofthe exporters, and these are the waters their divers will ransack soboldly.  Happily, this bay is well situated for that kind of fishing.It is sheltered from the strongest winds; the sea is never very roughhere, which makes it favourable for the diver's work.  We will now puton our dresses, and begin our walk."
I did not answer, and, while watching the suspected waves, began withthe help of the sailors to put on my heavy sea-dress. Captain Nemo andmy companions were also dressing.  None of the Nautilus men were toaccompany us on this new excursion.
Soon we were enveloped to the throat in india-rubber clothing; the airapparatus fixed to our backs by braces.  As to the Ruhmkorff apparatus,there was no necessity for it.  Before putting my head into the coppercap, I had asked the question of the Captain.
"They would be useless," he replied.  "We are going to no great depth,and the solar rays will be enough to light our walk.  Besides, it wouldnot be prudent to carry the electric light in these waters; itsbrilliancy might attract some of the dangerous inhabitants of the coastmost inopportunely."
As Captain Nemo pronounced these words, I turned to Conseil and NedLand.  But my two friends had already encased their heads in the metalcap, and they could neither hear nor answer.
One last question remained to ask of Captain Nemo.
"And our arms?" asked I; "our guns?"
"Guns!  What for?  Do not mountaineers attack the bear with a dagger intheir hand, and is not steel surer than lead?  Here is a strong blade;put it in your belt, and we start."
I looked at my companions; they were armed like us, and, more thanthat, Ned Land was brandishing an enormous harpoon, which he had placedin the boat before leaving the Nautilus.
Then, following the Captain's example, I allowed myself to be dressedin the heavy copper helmet, and our reservoirs of air were at once inactivity.  An instant after we were landed, one after the other, inabout two yards of water upon an even sand.  Captain Nemo made a signwith his hand, and we followed him by a gentle declivity till wedisappeared under the waves.
Over our feet, like coveys of snipe in a bog, rose shoals of fish, ofthe genus monoptera, which have no other fins but their tail. Irecognized the Javanese, a real serpent two and a half feet long, of alivid colour underneath, and which might easily be mistaken for aconger eel if it were not for the golden stripes on its side. In thegenus stromateus, whose bodies are very flat and oval, I saw some ofthe most brilliant colours, carrying their dorsal fin like a scythe; anexcellent eating fish, which, dried and pickled, is known by the nameof Karawade; then some tranquebars, belonging to the genusapsiphoroides, whose body is covered with a shell cuirass of eightlongitudinal plates.
The heightening sun lit the mass of waters more and more. The soilchanged by degrees. To the fine sand succeeded a perfect causeway ofboulders, covered with a carpet of molluscs and zoophytes. Amongst thespecimens of these branches I noticed some placenae, with thin unequalshells, a kind of ostracion peculiar to the Red Sea and the IndianOcean; some orange lucinae with rounded shells; rockfish three feet anda half long, which raised themselves under the waves like hands readyto seize one. There were also some panopyres, slightly luminous; andlastly, some oculines, like magnificent fans, forming one of therichest vegetations of these seas.
In the midst of these living plants, and under the arbours of thehydrophytes, were layers of clumsy articulates, particularly someraninae, whose carapace formed a slightly rounded triangle; and somehorrible looking parthenopes.
At about seven o'clock we found ourselves at last surveying theoyster-banks on which the pearl-oysters are reproduced by millions.
Captain Nemo pointed with his hand to the enormous heap of oysters; andI could well understand that this mine was inexhaustible, for Nature'screative power is far beyond man's instinct of destruction.  Ned Land,faithful to his instinct, hastened to fill a net which he carried byhis side with some of the finest specimens.  But we could not stop.  Wemust follow the Captain, who seemed to guide him self by paths knownonly to himself.  The ground was sensibly rising, and sometimes, onholding up my arm, it was above the surface of the sea.  Then the levelof the bank would sink capriciously.  Often we rounded high rocksscarped into pyramids.  In their dark fractures huge crustacea, perchedupon their high claws like some war-machine, watched us with fixedeyes, and under our feet crawled various kinds of annelides.
At this moment there opened before us a large grotto dug in apicturesque heap of rocks and carpeted with all the thick warp of thesubmarine flora.  At first it seemed very dark to me.  The solar raysseemed to be extinguished by successive gradations, until its vaguetransparency became nothing more than drowned light.  Captain Nemoentered; we followed.  My eyes soon accustomed themselves to thisrelative state of darkness.  I could distinguish the arches springingcapriciously from natural pillars, standing broad upon their granitebase, like the heavy columns of Tuscan architecture.  Why had ourincomprehensible guide led us to the bottom of this submarine crypt?  Iwas soon to know.  After descending a rather sharp declivity, our feettrod the bottom of a kind of circular pit.  There Captain Nemo stopped,and with his hand indicated an object I had not yet perceived.  It wasan oyster of extraordinary dimensions, a gigantic tridacne, a gobletwhich could have contained a whole lake of holy-water, a basin thebreadth of which was more than two yards and a half, and consequentlylarger than that ornamenting the saloon of the Nautilus.  I approachedthis extraordinary mollusc.  It adhered by its filaments to a table ofgranite, and there, isolated, it developed itself in the calm waters ofthe grotto.  I estimated the weight of this tridacne at 600 lb.  Suchan oyster would contain 30 lb. of meat; and one must have the stomachof a Gargantua to demolish some dozens of them.
Captain Nemo was evidently acquainted with the existence of thisbivalve, and seemed to have a particular motive in verifying the actualstate of this tridacne.  The shells were a little open; the Captaincame near and put his dagger between to prevent them from closing; thenwith his hand he raised the membrane with its fringed edges, whichformed a cloak for the creature.  There, between the folded plaits, Isaw a loose pearl, whose size equalled that of a coco-nut. Its globularshape, perfect clearness, and admirable lustre made it altogether ajewel of inestimable value.  Carried away by my curiosity, I stretchedout my hand to seize it, weigh it, and touch it; but the Captainstopped me, made a sign of refusal, and quickly withdrew his dagger,and the two shells closed suddenly.  I then understood Captain Nemo'sintention.  In leaving this pearl hidden in the mantle of the tridacnehe was allowing it to grow slowly.  Each year the secretions of themollusc would add new concentric circles.  I estimated its value atL500,000 at least.
After ten minutes Captain Nemo stopped suddenly.  I thought he hadhalted previously to returning.  No; by a gesture he bade us crouchbeside him in a deep fracture of the rock, his hand pointed to one partof the liquid mass, which I watched attentively.
About five yards from me a shadow appeared, and sank to the ground.The disquieting idea of sharks shot through my mind, but I wasmistaken; and once again it was not a monster of the ocean that we hadanything to do with.
It was a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, Isuppose, had come to glean before the harvest.  I could see the bottomof his canoe anchored some feet above his head.  He dived and went upsuccessively.  A stone held between his feet, cut in the shape of asugar loaf, whilst a rope fastened him to his boat, helped him todescend more rapidly.  This was all his apparatus.  Reaching thebottom, about five yards deep, he went on his knees and filled his bagwith oysters picked up at random.  Then he went up, emptied it, pulledup his stone, and began the operation once more, which lasted thirtyseconds.
The diver did not see us.  The shadow of the rock hid us from sight.And how should this poor Indian ever dream that men, beings likehimself, should be there under the water watching his movements andlosing no detail of the fishing?  Several times he went up in this way,and dived again.  He did not carry away more than ten at each plunge,for he was obliged to pull them from the bank to which they adhered bymeans of their strong byssus.  And how many of those oysters for whichhe risked his life had no pearl in them!  I watched him closely; hismanoeuvres were regular; and for the space of half an hour no dangerappeared to threaten him.
I was beginning to accustom myself to the sight of this interestingfishing, when suddenly, as the Indian was on the ground, I saw him makea gesture of terror, rise, and make a spring to return to the surfaceof the sea.
I understood his dread.  A gigantic shadow appeared just above theunfortunate diver.  It was a shark of enormous size advancingdiagonally, his eyes on fire, and his jaws open.  I was mute withhorror and unable to move.
The voracious creature shot towards the Indian, who threw himself onone side to avoid the shark's fins; but not its tail, for it struck hischest and stretched him on the ground.
This scene lasted but a few seconds:  the shark returned, and, turningon his back, prepared himself for cutting the Indian in two, when I sawCaptain Nemo rise suddenly, and then, dagger in hand, walk straight tothe monster, ready to fight face to face with him.  The very moment theshark was going to snap the unhappy fisherman in two, he perceived hisnew adversary, and, turning over, made straight towards him.
I can still see Captain Nemo's position.  Holding himself welltogether, he waited for the shark with admirable coolness; and, when itrushed at him, threw himself on one side with wonderful quickness,avoiding the shock, and burying his dagger deep into its side.  But itwas not all over.  A terrible combat ensued.
The shark had seemed to roar, if I might say so.  The blood rushed intorrents from its wound.  The sea was dyed red, and through the opaqueliquid I could distinguish nothing more.  Nothing more until the momentwhen, like lightning, I saw the undaunted Captain hanging on to one ofthe creature's fins, struggling, as it were, hand to hand with themonster, and dealing successive blows at his enemy, yet still unable togive a decisive one.
The shark's struggles agitated the water with such fury that therocking threatened to upset me.
I wanted to go to the Captain's assistance, but, nailed to the spotwith horror, I could not stir.
I saw the haggard eye; I saw the different phases of the fight.  TheCaptain fell to the earth, upset by the enormous mass which leant uponhim.  The shark's jaws opened wide, like a pair of factory shears, andit would have been all over with the Captain; but, quick as thought,harpoon in hand, Ned Land rushed towards the shark and struck it withits sharp point.
The waves were impregnated with a mass of blood.  They rocked under theshark's movements, which beat them with indescribable fury.  Ned Landhad not missed his aim.  It was the monster's death-rattle.  Struck tothe heart, it struggled in dreadful convulsions, the shock of whichoverthrew Conseil.
But Ned Land had disentangled the Captain, who, getting up without anywound, went straight to the Indian, quickly cut the cord which held himto his stone, took him in his arms, and, with a sharp blow of his heel,mounted to the surface.
We all three followed in a few seconds, saved by a miracle, and reachedthe fisherman's boat.
Captain Nemo's first care was to recall the unfortunate man to lifeagain.  I did not think he could succeed.  I hoped so, for the poorcreature's immersion was not long; but the blow from the shark's tailmight have been his death-blow.
Happily, with the Captain's and Conseil's sharp friction, I sawconsciousness return by degrees.  He opened his eyes.  What was hissurprise, his terror even, at seeing four great copper heads leaningover him!  And, above all, what must he have thought when Captain Nemo,drawing from the pocket of his dress a bag of pearls, placed it in hishand!  This munificent charity from the man of the waters to the poorCingalese was accepted with a trembling hand.  His wondering eyesshowed that he knew not to what super-human beings he owed both fortuneand life.
At a sign from the Captain we regained the bank, and, following theroad already traversed, came in about half an hour to the anchor whichheld the canoe of the Nautilus to the earth.
Once on board, we each, with the help of the sailors, got rid of theheavy copper helmet.
Captain Nemo's first word was to the Canadian.
"Thank you, Master Land," said he.
"It was in revenge, Captain," replied Ned Land.  "I owed you that."
A ghastly smile passed across the Captain's lips, and that was all.
"To the Nautilus," said he.
The boat flew over the waves.  Some minutes after we met the shark'sdead body floating.  By the black marking of the extremity of its fins,I recognised the terrible melanopteron of the Indian Seas, of thespecies of shark so properly called.  It was more than twenty-five feetlong; its enormous mouth occupied one-third of its body.  It was anadult, as was known by its six rows of teeth placed in an isoscelestriangle in the upper jaw.
Whilst I was contemplating this inert mass, a dozen of these voraciousbeasts appeared round the boat; and, without noticing us, threwthemselves upon the dead body and fought with one another for thepieces.
At half-past eight we were again on board the Nautilus.  There Ireflected on the incidents which had taken place in our excursion tothe Manaar Bank.
Two conclusions I must inevitably draw from it--one bearing upon theunparalleled courage of Captain Nemo, the other upon his devotion to ahuman being, a representative of that race from which he fled beneaththe sea.  Whatever he might say, this strange man had not yet succeededin entirely crushing his heart.
When I made this observation to him, he answered in a slightly movedtone:
"That Indian, sir, is an inhabitant of an oppressed country; and I amstill, and shall be, to my last breath, one of them!"


CHAPTER IV
THE RED SEA
In the course of the day of the 29th of January, the island of Ceylondisappeared under the horizon, and the Nautilus, at a speed of twentymiles an hour, slid into the labyrinth of canals which separate theMaldives from the Laccadives.  It coasted even the Island of Kiltan, aland originally coraline, discovered by Vasco da Gama in 1499, and oneof the nineteen principal islands of the Laccadive Archipelago,situated between 10° and 14° 30' N. lat., and 69° 50' 72"E. long.
We had made 16,220 miles, or 7,500 (French) leagues from ourstarting-point in the Japanese Seas.
The next day (30th January), when the Nautilus went to the surface ofthe ocean there was no land in sight.  Its course was N.N.E., in thedirection of the Sea of Oman, between Arabia and the Indian Peninsula,which serves as an outlet to the Persian Gulf.  It was evidently ablock without any possible egress.  Where was Captain Nemo taking usto?  I could not say.  This, however, did not satisfy the Canadian, whothat day came to me asking where we were going.
"We are going where our Captain's fancy takes us, Master Ned."
"His fancy cannot take us far, then," said the Canadian.  "The PersianGulf has no outlet:  and, if we do go in, it will not be long before weare out again."
"Very well, then, we will come out again, Master Land; and if, afterthe Persian Gulf, the Nautilus would like to visit the Red Sea, theStraits of Bab-el-mandeb are there to give us entrance."
"I need not tell you, sir," said Ned Land, "that the Red Sea is as muchclosed as the Gulf, as the Isthmus of Suez is not yet cut; and, if itwas, a boat as mysterious as ours would not risk itself in a canal cutwith sluices.  And again, the Red Sea is not the road to take us backto Europe."
"But I never said we were going back to Europe."
"What do you suppose, then?"
"I suppose that, after visiting the curious coasts of Arabia and Egypt,the Nautilus will go down the Indian Ocean again, perhaps cross theChannel of Mozambique, perhaps off the Mascarenhas, so as to gain theCape of Good Hope."
"And once at the Cape of Good Hope?" asked the Canadian, with peculiaremphasis.
"Well, we shall penetrate into that Atlantic which we do not yet know.Ah! friend Ned, you are getting tired of this journey under the sea;you are surfeited with the incessantly varying spectacle of submarinewonders.  For my part, I shall be sorry to see the end of a voyagewhich it is given to so few men to make."
For four days, till the 3rd of February, the Nautilus scoured the Seaof Oman, at various speeds and at various depths.  It seemed to go atrandom, as if hesitating as to which road it should follow, but wenever passed the Tropic of Cancer.
In quitting this sea we sighted Muscat for an instant, one of the mostimportant towns of the country of Oman.  I admired its strange aspect,surrounded by black rocks upon which its white houses and forts stoodin relief.  I saw the rounded domes of its mosques, the elegant pointsof its minarets, its fresh and verdant terraces.  But it was only avision!  The Nautilus soon sank under the waves of that part of the sea.
We passed along the Arabian coast of Mahrah and Hadramaut, for adistance of six miles, its undulating line of mountains beingoccasionally relieved by some ancient ruin.  The 5th of February we atlast entered the Gulf of Aden, a perfect funnel introduced into theneck of Bab-el-mandeb, through which the Indian waters entered the RedSea.
The 6th of February, the Nautilus floated in sight of Aden, perchedupon a promontory which a narrow isthmus joins to the mainland, a kindof inaccessible Gibraltar, the fortifications of which were rebuilt bythe English after taking possession in 1839.  I caught a glimpse of theoctagon minarets of this town, which was at one time the richestcommercial magazine on the coast.
I certainly thought that Captain Nemo, arrived at this point, wouldback out again; but I was mistaken, for he did no such thing, much tomy surprise.
The next day, the 7th of February, we entered the Straits ofBab-el-mandeb, the name of which, in the Arab tongue, means The Gate ofTears.
To twenty miles in breadth, it is only thirty-two in length.  And forthe Nautilus, starting at full speed, the crossing was scarcely thework of an hour.  But I saw nothing, not even the Island of Perim, withwhich the British Government has fortified the position of Aden.  Therewere too many English or French steamers of the line of Suez to Bombay,Calcutta to Melbourne, and from Bourbon to the Mauritius, furrowingthis narrow passage, for the Nautilus to venture to show itself.  So itremained prudently below.  At last about noon, we were in the waters ofthe Red Sea.
I would not even seek to understand the caprice which had decidedCaptain Nemo upon entering the gulf.  But I quite approved of theNautilus entering it.  Its speed was lessened:  sometimes it kept onthe surface, sometimes it dived to avoid a vessel, and thus I was ableto observe the upper and lower parts of this curious sea.
The 8th of February, from the first dawn of day, Mocha came in sight,now a ruined town, whose walls would fall at a gunshot, yet whichshelters here and there some verdant date-trees; once an importantcity, containing six public markets, and twenty-six mosques, and whosewalls, defended by fourteen forts, formed a girdle of two miles incircumference.
The Nautilus then approached the African shore, where the depth of thesea was greater.  There, between two waters clear as crystal, throughthe open panels we were allowed to contemplate the beautiful bushes ofbrilliant coral and large blocks of rock clothed with a splendid fur ofgreen variety of sites and landscapes along these sandbanks and algaeand fuci.  What an indescribable spectacle, and what variety of sitesand landscapes along these sandbanks and volcanic islands which boundthe Libyan coast!  But where these shrubs appeared in all their beautywas on the eastern coast, which the Nautilus soon gained.  It was onthe coast of Tehama, for there not only did this display of zoophytesflourish beneath the level of the sea, but they also formed picturesqueinterlacings which unfolded themselves about sixty feet above thesurface, more capricious but less highly coloured than those whosefreshness was kept up by the vital power of the waters.
What charming hours I passed thus at the window of the saloon!  Whatnew specimens of submarine flora and fauna did I admire under thebrightness of our electric lantern!
The 9th of February the Nautilus floated in the broadest part of theRed Sea, which is comprised between Souakin, on the west coast, andKomfidah, on the east coast, with a diameter of ninety miles.
That day at noon, after the bearings were taken, Captain Nemo mountedthe platform, where I happened to be, and I was determined not to lethim go down again without at least pressing him regarding his ulteriorprojects.  As soon as he saw me he approached and graciously offered mea cigar.
"Well, sir, does this Red Sea please you?  Have you sufficientlyobserved the wonders it covers, its fishes, its zoophytes, itsparterres of sponges, and its forests of coral?  Did you catch aglimpse of the towns on its borders?"
"Yes, Captain Nemo," I replied; "and the Nautilus is wonderfully fittedfor such a study.  Ah! it is an intelligent boat!"
"Yes, sir, intelligent and invulnerable.  It fears neither the terribletempests of the Red Sea, nor its currents, nor its sandbanks."
"Certainly," said I, "this sea is quoted as one of the worst, and inthe time of the ancients, if I am not mistaken, its reputation wasdetestable."
"Detestable, M. Aronnax.  The Greek and Latin historians do not speakfavourably of it, and Strabo says it is very dangerous during theEtesian winds and in the rainy season.  The Arabian Edrisi portrays itunder the name of the Gulf of Colzoum, and relates that vesselsperished there in great numbers on the sandbanks and that no one wouldrisk sailing in the night.  It is, he pretends, a sea subject tofearful hurricanes, strewn with inhospitable islands, and `which offersnothing good either on its surface or in its depths.'"
"One may see," I replied, "that these historians never sailed on boardthe Nautilus."
"Just so," replied the Captain, smiling; "and in that respect modernsare not more advanced than the ancients.  It required many ages to findout the mechanical power of steam.  Who knows if, in another hundredyears, we may not see a second Nautilus?  Progress is slow, M. Aronnax."
"It is true," I answered; "your boat is at least a century before itstime, perhaps an era.  What a misfortune that the secret of such aninvention should die with its inventor!"
Captain Nemo did not reply.  After some minutes' silence he continued:
"You were speaking of the opinions of ancient historians upon thedangerous navigation of the Red Sea."
"It is true," said I; "but were not their fears exaggerated?"
"Yes and no, M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, who seemed to know theRed Sea by heart.  "That which is no longer dangerous for a modernvessel, well rigged, strongly built, and master of its own course,thanks to obedient steam, offered all sorts of perils to the ships ofthe ancients.  Picture to yourself those first navigators venturing inships made of planks sewn with the cords of the palmtree, saturatedwith the grease of the seadog, and covered with powdered resin!  Theyhad not even instruments wherewith to take their bearings, and theywent by guess amongst currents of which they scarcely knew anything.Under such conditions shipwrecks were, and must have been, numerous.But in our time, steamers running between Suez and the South Seas havenothing more to fear from the fury of this gulf, in spite of contrarytrade-winds. The captain and passengers do not prepare for theirdeparture by offering propitiatory sacrifices; and, on their return,they no longer go ornamented with wreaths and gilt fillets to thank thegods in the neighbouring temple."
"I agree with you," said I; "and steam seems to have killed allgratitude in the hearts of sailors.  But, Captain, since you seem tohave especially studied this sea, can you tell me the origin of itsname?"
"There exist several explanations on the subject, M. Aronnax.  Wouldyou like to know the opinion of a chronicler of the fourteenth century?"
"Willingly."
"This fanciful writer pretends that its name was given to it after thepassage of the Israelites, when Pharaoh perished in the waves whichclosed at the voice of Moses."
"A poet's explanation, Captain Nemo," I replied; "but I cannot contentmyself with that.  I ask you for your personal opinion."
"Here it is, M. Aronnax.  According to my idea, we must see in thisappellation of the Red Sea a translation of the Hebrew word `Edom'; andif the ancients gave it that name, it was on account of the particularcolour of its waters."
"But up to this time I have seen nothing but transparent waves andwithout any particular colour."
"Very likely; but as we advance to the bottom of the gulf, you will seethis singular appearance.  I remember seeing the Bay of Tor entirelyred, like a sea of blood."
"And you attribute this colour to the presence of a microscopicseaweed?"
"Yes."
"So, Captain Nemo, it is not the first time you have overrun the RedSea on board the Nautilus?"
"No, sir."
"As you spoke a while ago of the passage of the Israelites and of thecatastrophe to the Egyptians, I will ask whether you have met with thetraces under the water of this great historical fact?"
"No, sir; and for a good reason."
"What is it?"
"It is that the spot where Moses and his people passed is now soblocked up with sand that the camels can barely bathe their legs there.You can well understand that there would not be water enough for myNautilus."
"And the spot?"  I asked.
"The spot is situated a little above the Isthmus of Suez, in the armwhich formerly made a deep estuary, when the Red Sea extended to theSalt Lakes.  Now, whether this passage were miraculous or not, theIsraelites, nevertheless, crossed there to reach the Promised Land, andPharaoh's army perished precisely on that spot; and I think thatexcavations made in the middle of the sand would bring to light a largenumber of arms and instruments of Egyptian origin."
"That is evident," I replied; "and for the sake of archaeologists letus hope that these excavations will be made sooner or later, when newtowns are established on the isthmus, after the construction of theSuez Canal; a canal, however, very useless to a vessel like theNautilus."
"Very likely; but useful to the whole world," said Captain Nemo.  "Theancients well understood the utility of a communication between the RedSea and the Mediterranean for their commercial affairs: but they didnot think of digging a canal direct, and took the Nile as anintermediate.  Very probably the canal which united the Nile to the RedSea was begun by Sesostris, if we may believe tradition.  One thing iscertain, that in the year 615 before Jesus Christ, Necos undertook theworks of an alimentary canal to the waters of the Nile across the plainof Egypt, looking towards Arabia.  It took four days to go up thiscanal, and it was so wide that two triremes could go abreast.  It wascarried on by Darius, the son of Hystaspes, and probably finished byPtolemy II.  Strabo saw it navigated:  but its decline from the pointof departure, near Bubastes, to the Red Sea was so slight that it wasonly navigable for a few months in the year.  This canal answered allcommercial purposes to the age of Antonius, when it was abandoned andblocked up with sand.  Restored by order of the Caliph Omar, it wasdefinitely destroyed in 761 or 762 by Caliph Al-Mansor, who wished toprevent the arrival of provisions to Mohammed-ben-Abdallah, who hadrevolted against him.  During the expedition into Egypt, your GeneralBonaparte discovered traces of the works in the Desert of Suez; and,surprised by the tide, he nearly perished before regaining Hadjaroth,at the very place where Moses had encamped three thousand years beforehim."
"Well, Captain, what the ancients dared not undertake, this junctionbetween the two seas, which will shorten the road from Cadiz to India,M. Lesseps has succeeded in doing; and before long he will have changedAfrica into an immense island."
"Yes, M. Aronnax; you have the right to be proud of your countryman.Such a man brings more honour to a nation than great captains.  Hebegan, like so many others, with disgust and rebuffs; but he hastriumphed, for he has the genius of will.  And it is sad to think thata work like that, which ought to have been an international work andwhich would have sufficed to make a reign illustrious, should havesucceeded by the energy of one man.  All honour to M. Lesseps!"
"Yes! honour to the great citizen," I replied, surprised by the mannerin which Captain Nemo had just spoken.
"Unfortunately," he continued, "I cannot take you through the SuezCanal; but you will be able to see the long jetty of Port Said afterto-morrow, when we shall be in the Mediterranean."
"The Mediterranean!"  I exclaimed.
"Yes, sir; does that astonish you?"
"What astonishes me is to think that we shall be there the day afterto-morrow."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, Captain, although by this time I ought to have accustomed myselfto be surprised at nothing since I have been on board your boat."
"But the cause of this surprise?"
"Well! it is the fearful speed you will have to put on the Nautilus, ifthe day after to-morrow she is to be in the Mediterranean, having madethe round of Africa, and doubled the Cape of Good Hope!"
"Who told you that she would make the round of Africa and double theCape of Good Hope, sir?"
"Well, unless the Nautilus sails on dry land, and passes above theisthmus----"
"Or beneath it, M. Aronnax."
"Beneath it?"
"Certainly," replied Captain Nemo quietly.  "A long time ago Naturemade under this tongue of land what man has this day made on itssurface."
"What! such a passage exists?"
"Yes; a subterranean passage, which I have named the Arabian Tunnel.It takes us beneath Suez and opens into the Gulf of Pelusium."
"But this isthmus is composed of nothing but quick sands?"
"To a certain depth.  But at fifty-five yards only there is a solidlayer of rock."
"Did you discover this passage by chance?"  I asked more and moresurprised.
"Chance and reasoning, sir; and by reasoning even more than by chance.Not only does this passage exist, but I have profited by it severaltimes.  Without that I should not have ventured this day into theimpassable Red Sea.  I noticed that in the Red Sea and in theMediterranean there existed a certain number of fishes of a kindperfectly identical.  Certain of the fact, I asked myself was itpossible that there was no communication between the two seas?  Ifthere was, the subterranean current must necessarily run from the RedSea to the Mediterranean, from the sole cause of difference of level.I caught a large number of fishes in the neighbourhood of Suez.  Ipassed a copper ring through their tails, and threw them back into thesea.  Some months later, on the coast of Syria, I caught some of myfish ornamented with the ring.  Thus the communication between the twowas proved.  I then sought for it with my Nautilus; I discovered it,ventured into it, and before long, sir, you too will have passedthrough my Arabian tunnel!"


CHAPTER V
THE ARABIAN TUNNEL
That same evening, in 21° 30' N. lat., the Nautilus floated on thesurface of the sea, approaching the Arabian coast.  I saw Djeddah, themost important counting-house of Egypt, Syria, Turkey, and India.  Idistinguished clearly enough its buildings, the vessels anchored at thequays, and those whose draught of water obliged them to anchor in theroads.  The sun, rather low on the horizon, struck full on the housesof the town, bringing out their whiteness.  Outside, some woodencabins, and some made of reeds, showed the quarter inhabited by theBedouins.  Soon Djeddah was shut out from view by the shadows of night,and the Nautilus found herself under water slightly phosphorescent.
The next day, the 10th of February, we sighted several ships running towindward.  The Nautilus returned to its submarine navigation; but atnoon, when her bearings were taken, the sea being deserted, she roseagain to her waterline.
Accompanied by Ned and Conseil, I seated myself on the platform.  Thecoast on the eastern side looked like a mass faintly printed upon adamp fog.
We were leaning on the sides of the pinnace, talking of one thing andanother, when Ned Land, stretching out his hand towards a spot on thesea, said:
"Do you see anything there, sir?"
"No, Ned," I replied; "but I have not your eyes, you know."
"Look well," said Ned, "there, on the starboard beam, about the heightof the lantern!  Do you not see a mass which seems to move?"
"Certainly," said I, after close attention; "I see something like along black body on the top of the water."
And certainly before long the black object was not more than a milefrom us.  It looked like a great sandbank deposited in the open sea.It was a gigantic dugong!
Ned Land looked eagerly.  His eyes shone with covetousness at the sightof the animal.  His hand seemed ready to harpoon it.  One would havethought he was awaiting the moment to throw himself into the sea andattack it in its element.
At this instant Captain Nemo appeared on the platform.  He saw thedugong, understood the Canadian's attitude, and, addressing him, said:
"If you held a harpoon just now, Master Land, would it not burn yourhand?"
"Just so, sir."
"And you would not be sorry to go back, for one day, to your trade of afisherman and to add this cetacean to the list of those you havealready killed?"
"I should not, sir."
"Well, you can try."
"Thank you, sir," said Ned Land, his eyes flaming.
"Only," continued the Captain, "I advise you for your own sake not tomiss the creature."
"Is the dugong dangerous to attack?"  I asked, in spite of theCanadian's shrug of the shoulders.
"Yes," replied the Captain; "sometimes the animal turns upon itsassailants and overturns their boat.  But for Master Land this dangeris not to be feared.  His eye is prompt, his arm sure."
At this moment seven men of the crew, mute and immovable as ever,mounted the platform.  One carried a harpoon and a line similar tothose employed in catching whales.  The pinnace was lifted from thebridge, pulled from its socket, and let down into the sea.  Six oarsmentook their seats, and the coxswain went to the tiller.  Ned, Conseil,and I went to the back of the boat.
"You are not coming, Captain?"  I asked.
"No, sir; but I wish you good sport."
The boat put off, and, lifted by the six rowers, drew rapidly towardsthe dugong, which floated about two miles from the Nautilus.
Arrived some cables-length from the cetacean, the speed slackened, andthe oars dipped noiselessly into the quiet waters.  Ned Land, harpoonin hand, stood in the fore part of the boat.  The harpoon used forstriking the whale is generally attached to a very long cord which runsout rapidly as the wounded creature draws it after him.  But here thecord was not more than ten fathoms long, and the extremity was attachedto a small barrel which, by floating, was to show the course the dugongtook under the water.
I stood and carefully watched the Canadian's adversary.  This dugong,which also bears the name of the halicore, closely resembles themanatee; its oblong body terminated in a lengthened tail, and itslateral fins in perfect fingers.  Its difference from the manateeconsisted in its upper jaw, which was armed with two long and pointedteeth which formed on each side diverging tusks.
This dugong which Ned Land was preparing to attack was of colossaldimensions; it was more than seven yards long.  It did not move, andseemed to be sleeping on the waves, which circumstance made it easierto capture.
The boat approached within six yards of the animal.  The oars rested onthe rowlocks.  I half rose.  Ned Land, his body thrown a little back,brandished the harpoon in his experienced hand.
Suddenly a hissing noise was heard, and the dugong disappeared.  Theharpoon, although thrown with great force; had apparently only struckthe water.
"Curse it!" exclaimed the Canadian furiously; "I have missed it!"
"No," said I; "the creature is wounded--look at the blood; but yourweapon has not stuck in his body."
"My harpoon! my harpoon!" cried Ned Land.
The sailors rowed on, and the coxswain made for the floating barrel.The harpoon regained, we followed in pursuit of the animal.
The latter came now and then to the surface to breathe.  Its wound hadnot weakened it, for it shot onwards with great rapidity.
The boat, rowed by strong arms, flew on its track.  Several times itapproached within some few yards, and the Canadian was ready to strike,but the dugong made off with a sudden plunge, and it was impossible toreach it.
Imagine the passion which excited impatient Ned Land!  He hurled at theunfortunate creature the most energetic expletives in the Englishtongue.  For my part, I was only vexed to see the dugong escape all ourattacks.
We pursued it without relaxation for an hour, and I began to think itwould prove difficult to capture, when the animal, possessed with theperverse idea of vengeance of which he had cause to repent, turned uponthe pinnace and assailed us in its turn.
This manoeuvre did not escape the Canadian.
"Look out!" he cried.
The coxswain said some words in his outlandish tongue, doubtlesswarning the men to keep on their guard.
The dugong came within twenty feet of the boat, stopped, sniffed theair briskly with its large nostrils (not pierced at the extremity, butin the upper part of its muzzle). Then, taking a spring, he threwhimself upon us.
The pinnace could not avoid the shock, and half upset, shipped at leasttwo tons of water, which had to be emptied; but, thanks to thecoxswain, we caught it sideways, not full front, so we were not quiteoverturned.  While Ned Land, clinging to the bows, belaboured thegigantic animal with blows from his harpoon, the creature's teeth wereburied in the gunwale, and it lifted the whole thing out of the water,as a lion does a roebuck.  We were upset over one another, and I knownot how the adventure would have ended, if the Canadian, still enragedwith the beast, had not struck it to the heart.
I heard its teeth grind on the iron plate, and the dugong disappeared,carrying the harpoon with him.  But the barrel soon returned to thesurface, and shortly after the body of the animal, turned on its back.The boat came up with it, took it in tow, and made straight for theNautilus.
It required tackle of enormous strength to hoist the dugong on to theplatform.  It weighed 10,000 lb.
The next day, 11th February, the larder of the Nautilus was enriched bysome more delicate game.  A flight of sea-swallows rested on theNautilus.  It was a species of the Sterna nilotica, peculiar to Egypt;its beak is black, head grey and pointed, the eye surrounded by whitespots, the back, wings, and tail of a greyish colour, the belly andthroat white, and claws red.  They also took some dozen of Nile ducks,a wild bird of high flavour, its throat and upper part of the headwhite with black spots.
About five o'clock in the evening we sighted to the north the Cape ofRas-Mohammed. This cape forms the extremity of Arabia Petraea,comprised between the Gulf of Suez and the Gulf of Acabah.
The Nautilus penetrated into the Straits of Jubal, which leads to theGulf of Suez.  I distinctly saw a high mountain, towering between thetwo gulfs of Ras-Mohammed. It was Mount Horeb, that Sinai at the top ofwhich Moses saw God face to face.
At six o'clock the Nautilus, sometimes floating, sometimes immersed,passed some distance from Tor, situated at the end of the bay, thewaters of which seemed tinted with red, an observation already made byCaptain Nemo.  Then night fell in the midst of a heavy silence,sometimes broken by the cries of the pelican and other night-birds, andthe noise of the waves breaking upon the shore, chafing against therocks, or the panting of some far-off steamer beating the waters of theGulf with its noisy paddles.
From eight to nine o'clock the Nautilus remained some fathoms under thewater.  According to my calculation we must have been very near Suez.Through the panel of the saloon I saw the bottom of the rocksbrilliantly lit up by our electric lamp.  We seemed to be leaving theStraits behind us more and more.
At a quarter-past nine, the vessel having returned to the surface, Imounted the platform.  Most impatient to pass through Captain Nemo'stunnel, I could not stay in one place, so came to breathe the freshnight air.
Soon in the shadow I saw a pale light, half discoloured by the fog,shining about a mile from us.
"A floating lighthouse!" said someone near me.
I turned, and saw the Captain.
"It is the floating light of Suez," he continued.  "It will not be longbefore we gain the entrance of the tunnel."
"The entrance cannot be easy?"
"No, sir; for that reason I am accustomed to go into the steersman'scage and myself direct our course.  And now, if you will go down, M.Aronnax, the Nautilus is going under the waves, and will not return tothe surface until we have passed through the Arabian Tunnel."
Captain Nemo led me towards the central staircase; half way down heopened a door, traversed the upper deck, and landed in the pilot'scage, which it may be remembered rose at the extremity of the platform.It was a cabin measuring six feet square, very much like that occupiedby the pilot on the steamboats of the Mississippi or Hudson.  In themidst worked a wheel, placed vertically, and caught to the tiller-rope,which ran to the back of the Nautilus.  Four light-ports withlenticular glasses, let in a groove in the partition of the cabin,allowed the man at the wheel to see in all directions.
This cabin was dark; but soon my eyes accustomed themselves to theobscurity, and I perceived the pilot, a strong man, with his handsresting on the spokes of the wheel.  Outside, the sea appeared vividlylit up by the lantern, which shed its rays from the back of the cabinto the other extremity of the platform.
"Now," said Captain Nemo, "let us try to make our passage."
Electric wires connected the pilot's cage with the machinery room, andfrom there the Captain could communicate simultaneously to his Nautilusthe direction and the speed.  He pressed a metal knob, and at once thespeed of the screw diminished.
I looked in silence at the high straight wall we were running by atthis moment, the immovable base of a massive sandy coast.  We followedit thus for an hour only some few yards off.
Captain Nemo did not take his eye from the knob, suspended by its twoconcentric circles in the cabin.  At a simple gesture, the pilotmodified the course of the Nautilus every instant.
I had placed myself at the port-scuttle, and saw some magnificentsubstructures of coral, zoophytes, seaweed, and fucus, agitating theirenormous claws, which stretched out from the fissures of the rock.
At a quarter-past ten, the Captain himself took the helm.  A largegallery, black and deep, opened before us.  The Nautilus went boldlyinto it.  A strange roaring was heard round its sides.  It was thewaters of the Red Sea, which the incline of the tunnel precipitatedviolently towards the Mediterranean.  The Nautilus went with thetorrent, rapid as an arrow, in spite of the efforts of the machinery,which, in order to offer more effective resistance, beat the waves withreversed screw.
On the walls of the narrow passage I could see nothing but brilliantrays, straight lines, furrows of fire, traced by the great speed, underthe brilliant electric light.  My heart beat fast.
At thirty-five minutes past ten, Captain Nemo quitted the helm, and,turning to me, said:
"The Mediterranean!"
In less than twenty minutes, the Nautilus, carried along by thetorrent, had passed through the Isthmus of Suez.


CHAPTER VI
THE GRECIAN ARCHIPELAGO
The next day, the 12th of February, at the dawn of day, the Nautilusrose to the surface.  I hastened on to the platform.  Three miles tothe south the dim outline of Pelusium was to be seen.  A torrent hadcarried us from one sea to another.  About seven o'clock Ned andConseil joined me.
"Well, Sir Naturalist," said the Canadian, in a slightly jovial tone,"and the Mediterranean?"
"We are floating on its surface, friend Ned."
"What!" said Conseil, "this very night."
"Yes, this very night; in a few minutes we have passed this impassableisthmus."
"I do not believe it," replied the Canadian.
"Then you are wrong, Master Land," I continued; "this low coast whichrounds off to the south is the Egyptian coast.  And you who have suchgood eyes, Ned, you can see the jetty of Port Said stretching into thesea."
The Canadian looked attentively.
"Certainly you are right, sir, and your Captain is a first-rate man.We are in the Mediterranean.  Good!  Now, if you please, let us talk ofour own little affair, but so that no one hears us."
I saw what the Canadian wanted, and, in any case, I thought it betterto let him talk, as he wished it; so we all three went and sat downnear the lantern, where we were less exposed to the spray of the blades.
"Now, Ned, we listen; what have you to tell us?"
"What I have to tell you is very simple.  We are in Europe; and beforeCaptain Nemo's caprices drag us once more to the bottom of the PolarSeas, or lead us into Oceania, I ask to leave the Nautilus."
I wished in no way to shackle the liberty of my companions, but Icertainly felt no desire to leave Captain Nemo.
Thanks to him, and thanks to his apparatus, I was each day nearer thecompletion of my submarine studies; and I was rewriting my book ofsubmarine depths in its very element.  Should I ever again have such anopportunity of observing the wonders of the ocean?  No, certainly not!And I could not bring myself to the idea of abandoning the Nautilusbefore the cycle of investigation was accomplished.
"Friend Ned, answer me frankly, are you tired of being on board?  Areyou sorry that destiny has thrown us into Captain Nemo's hands?"
The Canadian remained some moments without answering.  Then, crossinghis arms, he said:
"Frankly, I do not regret this journey under the seas.  I shall be gladto have made it; but, now that it is made, let us have done with it.That is my idea."
"It will come to an end, Ned."
"Where and when?"
"Where I do not know--when I cannot say; or, rather, I suppose it willend when these seas have nothing more to teach us."
"Then what do you hope for?" demanded the Canadian.
"That circumstances may occur as well six months hence as now by whichwe may and ought to profit."
"Oh!" said Ned Land, "and where shall we be in six months, if youplease, Sir Naturalist?"
"Perhaps in China; you know the Nautilus is a rapid traveller.  It goesthrough water as swallows through the air, or as an express on theland.  It does not fear frequented seas; who can say that it may notbeat the coasts of France, England, or America, on which flight may beattempted as advantageously as here."
"M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian, "your arguments are rotten at thefoundation.  You speak in the future, `We shall be there!  we shall behere!'  I speak in the present, `We are here, and we must profit byit.'"
Ned Land's logic pressed me hard, and I felt myself beaten on thatground.  I knew not what argument would now tell in my favour.
"Sir," continued Ned, "let us suppose an impossibility: if Captain Nemoshould this day offer you your liberty; would you accept it?"
"I do not know," I answered.
"And if," he added, "the offer made you this day was never to berenewed, would you accept it?"
"Friend Ned, this is my answer.  Your reasoning is against me.  We mustnot rely on Captain Nemo's good-will. Common prudence forbids him toset us at liberty.  On the other side, prudence bids us profit by thefirst opportunity to leave the Nautilus."
"Well, M. Aronnax, that is wisely said."
"Only one observation--just one.  The occasion must be serious, and ourfirst attempt must succeed; if it fails, we shall never find another,and Captain Nemo will never forgive us."
"All that is true," replied the Canadian.  "But your observationapplies equally to all attempts at flight, whether in two years' time,or in two days'. But the question is still this: If a favourableopportunity presents itself, it must be seized."
"Agreed!  And now, Ned, will you tell me what you mean by a favourableopportunity?"
"It will be that which, on a dark night, will bring the Nautilus ashort distance from some European coast."
"And you will try and save yourself by swimming?"
"Yes, if we were near enough to the bank, and if the vessel wasfloating at the time.  Not if the bank was far away, and the boat wasunder the water."
"And in that case?"
"In that case, I should seek to make myself master of the pinnace.  Iknow how it is worked.  We must get inside, and the bolts once drawn,we shall come to the surface of the water, without even the pilot, whois in the bows, perceiving our flight."
"Well, Ned, watch for the opportunity; but do not forget that a hitchwill ruin us."
"I will not forget, sir."
"And now, Ned, would you like to know what I think of your project?"
"Certainly, M. Aronnax."
"Well, I think--I do not say I hope--I think that this favourableopportunity will never present itself."
"Why not?"
"Because Captain Nemo cannot hide from himself that we have not givenup all hope of regaining our liberty, and he will be on his guard,above all, in the seas and in the sight of European coasts."
"We shall see," replied Ned Land, shaking his head determinedly.
"And now, Ned Land," I added, "let us stop here.  Not another word onthe subject.  The day that you are ready, come and let us know, and wewill follow you.  I rely entirely upon you."
Thus ended a conversation which, at no very distant time, led to suchgrave results.  I must say here that facts seemed to confirm myforesight, to the Canadian's great despair.  Did Captain Nemo distrustus in these frequented seas? or did he only wish to hide himself fromthe numerous vessels, of all nations, which ploughed the Mediterranean?I could not tell; but we were oftener between waters and far from thecoast.  Or, if the Nautilus did emerge, nothing was to be seen but thepilot's cage; and sometimes it went to great depths, for, between theGrecian Archipelago and Asia Minor we could not touch the bottom bymore than a thousand fathoms.
Thus I only knew we were near the Island of Carpathos, one of theSporades, by Captain Nemo reciting these lines from Virgil:
    "Est Carpathio Neptuni gurgite vates,     Caeruleus Proteus,"
as he pointed to a spot on the planisphere.
It was indeed the ancient abode of Proteus, the old shepherd ofNeptune's flocks, now the Island of Scarpanto, situated between Rhodesand Crete.  I saw nothing but the granite base through the glass panelsof the saloon.
The next day, the 14th of February, I resolved to employ some hours instudying the fishes of the Archipelago; but for some reason or otherthe panels remained hermetically sealed.  Upon taking the course of theNautilus, I found that we were going towards Candia, the ancient Isleof Crete.  At the time I embarked on the Abraham Lincoln, the whole ofthis island had risen in insurrection against the despotism of theTurks.  But how the insurgents had fared since that time I wasabsolutely ignorant, and it was not Captain Nemo, deprived of all landcommunications, who could tell me.
I made no allusion to this event when that night I found myself alonewith him in the saloon.  Besides, he seemed to be taciturn andpreoccupied.  Then, contrary to his custom, he ordered both panels tobe opened, and, going from one to the other, observed the mass ofwaters attentively.  To what end I could not guess; so, on my side, Iemployed my time in studying the fish passing before my eyes.
In the midst of the waters a man appeared, a diver, carrying at hisbelt a leathern purse.  It was not a body abandoned to the waves; itwas a living man, swimming with a strong hand, disappearingoccasionally to take breath at the surface.
I turned towards Captain Nemo, and in an agitated voice exclaimed:
"A man shipwrecked!  He must be saved at any price!"
The Captain did not answer me, but came and leaned against the panel.
The man had approached, and, with his face flattened against the glass,was looking at us.
To my great amazement, Captain Nemo signed to him.  The diver answeredwith his hand, mounted immediately to the surface of the water, and didnot appear again.
"Do not be uncomfortable," said Captain Nemo.  "It is Nicholas of CapeMatapan, surnamed Pesca.  He is well known in all the Cyclades.  A bolddiver! water is his element, and he lives more in it than on land,going continually from one island to another, even as far as Crete."
"You know him, Captain?"
"Why not, M. Aronnax?"
Saying which, Captain Nemo went towards a piece of furniture standingnear the left panel of the saloon.  Near this piece of furniture, I sawa chest bound with iron, on the cover of which was a copper plate,bearing the cypher of the Nautilus with its device.
At that moment, the Captain, without noticing my presence, opened thepiece of furniture, a sort of strong box, which held a great manyingots.
They were ingots of gold.  From whence came this precious metal, whichrepresented an enormous sum?  Where did the Captain gather this goldfrom? and what was he going to do with it?
I did not say one word.  I looked.  Captain Nemo took the ingots one byone, and arranged them methodically in the chest, which he filledentirely.  I estimated the contents at more than 4,000 lb. weight ofgold, that is to say, nearly L200,000.
The chest was securely fastened, and the Captain wrote an address onthe lid, in characters which must have belonged to Modern Greece.
This done, Captain Nemo pressed a knob, the wire of which communicatedwith the quarters of the crew.  Four men appeared, and, not withoutsome trouble, pushed the chest out of the saloon.  Then I heard themhoisting it up the iron staircase by means of pulleys.
At that moment, Captain Nemo turned to me.
"And you were saying, sir?" said he.
"I was saying nothing, Captain."
"Then, sir, if you will allow me, I will wish you good night."
Whereupon he turned and left the saloon.
I returned to my room much troubled, as one may believe.  I vainlytried to sleep--I sought the connecting link between the apparition ofthe diver and the chest filled with gold.  Soon, I felt by certainmovements of pitching and tossing that the Nautilus was leaving thedepths and returning to the surface.
Then I heard steps upon the platform; and I knew they were unfasteningthe pinnace and launching it upon the waves.  For one instant it struckthe side of the Nautilus, then all noise ceased.
Two hours after, the same noise, the same going and coming was renewed;the boat was hoisted on board, replaced in its socket, and the Nautilusagain plunged under the waves.
So these millions had been transported to their address.  To what pointof the continent?  Who was Captain Nemo's correspondent?
The next day I related to Conseil and the Canadian the events of thenight, which had excited my curiosity to the highest degree.  Mycompanions were not less surprised than myself.
"But where does he take his millions to?" asked Ned Land.
To that there was no possible answer.  I returned to the saloon afterhaving breakfast and set to work.  Till five o'clock in the evening Iemployed myself in arranging my notes.  At that moment--(ought I toattribute it to some peculiar idiosyncrasy)--I felt so great a heatthat I was obliged to take off my coat.  It was strange, for we wereunder low latitudes; and even then the Nautilus, submerged as it was,ought to experience no change of temperature.  I looked at themanometer; it showed a depth of sixty feet, to which atmospheric heatcould never attain.
I continued my work, but the temperature rose to such a pitch as to beintolerable.
"Could there be fire on board?"  I asked myself.
I was leaving the saloon, when Captain Nemo entered; he approached thethermometer, consulted it, and, turning to me, said:
"Forty-two degrees."
"I have noticed it, Captain," I replied; "and if it gets much hotter wecannot bear it."
"Oh, sir, it will not get better if we do not wish it."
"You can reduce it as you please, then?"
"No; but I can go farther from the stove which produces it."
"It is outward, then!"
"Certainly; we are floating in a current of boiling water."
"Is it possible!"  I exclaimed.
"Look."
The panels opened, and I saw the sea entirely white all round.  Asulphurous smoke was curling amid the waves, which boiled like water ina copper.  I placed my hand on one of the panes of glass, but the heatwas so great that I quickly took it off again.
"Where are we?"  I asked.
"Near the Island of Santorin, sir," replied the Captain.  "I wished togive you a sight of the curious spectacle of a submarine eruption."
"I thought," said I, "that the formation of these new islands wasended."
"Nothing is ever ended in the volcanic parts of the sea," repliedCaptain Nemo; "and the globe is always being worked by subterraneanfires.  Already, in the nineteenth year of our era, according toCassiodorus and Pliny, a new island, Theia (the divine), appeared inthe very place where these islets have recently been formed.  Then theysank under the waves, to rise again in the year 69, when they againsubsided.  Since that time to our days the Plutonian work has beensuspended.  But on the 3rd of February, 1866, a new island, which theynamed George Island, emerged from the midst of the sulphurous vapournear Nea Kamenni, and settled again the 6th of the same month.  Sevendays after, the 13th of February, the Island of Aphroessa appeared,leaving between Nea Kamenni and itself a canal ten yards broad.  I wasin these seas when the phenomenon occurred, and I was able therefore toobserve all the different phases.  The Island of Aphroessa, of roundform, measured 300 feet in diameter, and 30 feet in height.  It wascomposed of black and vitreous lava, mixed with fragments of felspar.And lastly, on the 10th of March, a smaller island, called Reka, showeditself near Nea Kamenni, and since then these three have joinedtogether, forming but one and the same island."
"And the canal in which we are at this moment?"  I asked.
"Here it is," replied Captain Nemo, showing me a map of theArchipelago.  "You see, I have marked the new islands."
I returned to the glass.  The Nautilus was no longer moving, the heatwas becoming unbearable.  The sea, which till now had been white, wasred, owing to the presence of salts of iron.  In spite of the ship'sbeing hermetically sealed, an insupportable smell of sulphur filled thesaloon, and the brilliancy of the electricity was entirely extinguishedby bright scarlet flames.  I was in a bath, I was choking, I wasbroiled.
"We can remain no longer in this boiling water," said I to the Captain.
"It would not be prudent," replied the impassive Captain Nemo.
An order was given; the Nautilus tacked about and left the furnace itcould not brave with impunity.  A quarter of an hour after we werebreathing fresh air on the surface.  The thought then struck me that,if Ned Land had chosen this part of the sea for our flight, we shouldnever have come alive out of this sea of fire.
The next day, the 16th of February, we left the basin which, betweenRhodes and Alexandria, is reckoned about 1,500 fathoms in depth, andthe Nautilus, passing some distance from Cerigo, quitted the GrecianArchipelago after having doubled Cape Matapan.


CHAPTER VII
THE MEDITERRANEAN IN FORTY-EIGHT HOURS
The Mediterranean, the blue sea par excellence, "the great sea" of theHebrews, "the sea" of the Greeks, the "mare nostrum" of the Romans,bordered by orange-trees, aloes, cacti, and sea-pines; embalmed withthe perfume of the myrtle, surrounded by rude mountains, saturated withpure and transparent air, but incessantly worked by underground fires;a perfect battlefield in which Neptune and Pluto still dispute theempire of the world!
It is upon these banks, and on these waters, says Michelet, that man isrenewed in one of the most powerful climates of the globe.  But,beautiful as it was, I could only take a rapid glance at the basinwhose superficial area is two million of square yards.  Even CaptainNemo's knowledge was lost to me, for this puzzling person did notappear once during our passage at full speed.  I estimated the coursewhich the Nautilus took under the waves of the sea at about six hundredleagues, and it was accomplished in forty-eight hours.  Starting on themorning of the 16th of February from the shores of Greece, we hadcrossed the Straits of Gibraltar by sunrise on the 18th.
It was plain to me that this Mediterranean, enclosed in the midst ofthose countries which he wished to avoid, was distasteful to CaptainNemo.  Those waves and those breezes brought back too manyremembrances, if not too many regrets.  Here he had no longer thatindependence and that liberty of gait which he had when in the openseas, and his Nautilus felt itself cramped between the close shores ofAfrica and Europe.
Our speed was now twenty-five miles an hour.  It may be well understoodthat Ned Land, to his great disgust, was obliged to renounce hisintended flight.  He could not launch the pinnace, going at the rate oftwelve or thirteen yards every second.  To quit the Nautilus under suchconditions would be as bad as jumping from a train going at fullspeed--an imprudent thing, to say the least of it.  Besides, our vesselonly mounted to the surface of the waves at night to renew its stock ofair; it was steered entirely by the compass and the log.
I saw no more of the interior of this Mediterranean than a traveller byexpress train perceives of the landscape which flies before his eyes;that is to say, the distant horizon, and not the nearer objects whichpass like a flash of lightning.
We were then passing between Sicily and the coast of Tunis.  In thenarrow space between Cape Bon and the Straits of Messina the bottom ofthe sea rose almost suddenly.  There was a perfect bank, on which therewas not more than nine fathoms of water, whilst on either side thedepth was ninety fathoms.
The Nautilus had to manoeuvre very carefully so as not to strikeagainst this submarine barrier.
I showed Conseil, on the map of the Mediterranean, the spot occupied bythis reef.
"But if you please, sir," observed Conseil, "it is like a real isthmusjoining Europe to Africa."
"Yes, my boy, it forms a perfect bar to the Straits of Lybia, and thesoundings of Smith have proved that in former times the continentsbetween Cape Boco and Cape Furina were joined."
"I can well believe it," said Conseil.
"I will add," I continued, "that a similar barrier exists betweenGibraltar and Ceuta, which in geological times formed the entireMediterranean."
"What if some volcanic burst should one day raise these two barriersabove the waves?"
"It is not probable, Conseil."
"Well, but allow me to finish, please, sir; if this phenomenon shouldtake place, it will be troublesome for M. Lesseps, who has taken somuch pains to pierce the isthmus."
"I agree with you; but I repeat, Conseil, this phenomenon will neverhappen.  The violence of subterranean force is ever diminishing.Volcanoes, so plentiful in the first days of the world, are beingextinguished by degrees; the internal heat is weakened, the temperatureof the lower strata of the globe is lowered by a perceptible quantityevery century to the detriment of our globe, for its heat is its life."
"But the sun?"
"The sun is not sufficient, Conseil.  Can it give heat to a dead body?"
"Not that I know of."
"Well, my friend, this earth will one day be that cold corpse; it willbecome uninhabitable and uninhabited like the moon, which has longsince lost all its vital heat."
"In how many centuries?"
"In some hundreds of thousands of years, my boy."
"Then," said Conseil, "we shall have time to finish our journey--thatis, if Ned Land does not interfere with it."
And Conseil, reassured, returned to the study of the bank, which theNautilus was skirting at a moderate speed.
During the night of the 16th and 17th February we had entered thesecond Mediterranean basin, the greatest depth of which was 1,450fathoms.  The Nautilus, by the action of its crew, slid down theinclined planes and buried itself in the lowest depths of the sea.
On the 18th of February, about three o'clock in the morning, we were atthe entrance of the Straits of Gibraltar.  There once existed twocurrents: an upper one, long since recognised, which conveys the watersof the ocean into the basin of the Mediterranean; and a lowercounter-current, which reasoning has now shown to exist.  Indeed, thevolume of water in the Mediterranean, incessantly added to by the wavesof the Atlantic and by rivers falling into it, would each year raisethe level of this sea, for its evaporation is not sufficient to restorethe equilibrium.  As it is not so, we must necessarily admit theexistence of an under-current, which empties into the basin of theAtlantic through the Straits of Gibraltar the surplus waters of theMediterranean.  A fact indeed; and it was this counter-current by whichthe Nautilus profited.  It advanced rapidly by the narrow pass.  Forone instant I caught a glimpse of the beautiful ruins of the temple ofHercules, buried in the ground, according to Pliny, and with the lowisland which supports it; and a few minutes later we were floating onthe Atlantic.


CHAPTER VIII
VIGO BAY
The Atlantic! a vast sheet of water whose superficial area coverstwenty-five millions of square miles, the length of which is ninethousand miles, with a mean breadth of two thousand seven hundred--anocean whose parallel winding shores embrace an immense circumference,watered by the largest rivers of the world, the St. Lawrence, theMississippi, the Amazon, the Plata, the Orinoco, the Niger, theSenegal, the Elbe, the Loire, and the Rhine, which carry water from themost civilised, as well as from the most savage, countries!Magnificent field of water, incessantly ploughed by vessels of everynation, sheltered by the flags of every nation, and which terminates inthose two terrible points so dreaded by mariners, Cape Horn and theCape of Tempests.
The Nautilus was piercing the water with its sharp spur, after havingaccomplished nearly ten thousand leagues in three months and a half, adistance greater than the great circle of the earth.  Where were wegoing now, and what was reserved for the future?  The Nautilus, leavingthe Straits of Gibraltar, had gone far out.  It returned to the surfaceof the waves, and our daily walks on the platform were restored to us.
I mounted at once, accompanied by Ned Land and Conseil.  At a distanceof about twelve miles, Cape St. Vincent was dimly to be seen, formingthe south-western point of the Spanish peninsula.  A strong southerlygale was blowing.  The sea was swollen and billowy; it made theNautilus rock violently.  It was almost impossible to keep one's footon the platform, which the heavy rolls of the sea beat over everyinstant.  So we descended after inhaling some mouthfuls of fresh air.
I returned to my room, Conseil to his cabin; but the Canadian, with apreoccupied air, followed me.  Our rapid passage across theMediterranean had not allowed him to put his project into execution,and he could not help showing his disappointment.  When the door of myroom was shut, he sat down and looked at me silently.
"Friend Ned," said I, "I understand you; but you cannot reproachyourself.  To have attempted to leave the Nautilus under thecircumstances would have been folly."
Ned Land did not answer; his compressed lips and frowning brow showedwith him the violent possession this fixed idea had taken of his mind.
"Let us see," I continued; "we need not despair yet.  We are going upthe coast of Portugal again; France and England are not far off, wherewe can easily find refuge.  Now if the Nautilus, on leaving the Straitsof Gibraltar, had gone to the south, if it had carried us towardsregions where there were no continents, I should share your uneasiness.But we know now that Captain Nemo does not fly from civilised seas, andin some days I think you can act with security."
Ned Land still looked at me fixedly; at length his fixed lips parted,and he said, "It is for to-night."
I drew myself up suddenly.  I was, I admit, little prepared for thiscommunication.  I wanted to answer the Canadian, but words would notcome.
"We agreed to wait for an opportunity," continued Ned Land, "and theopportunity has arrived.  This night we shall be but a few miles fromthe Spanish coast.  It is cloudy.  The wind blows freely.  I have yourword, M. Aronnax, and I rely upon you."
As I was silent, the Canadian approached me.
"To-night, at nine o'clock," said he.  "I have warned Conseil.  At thatmoment Captain Nemo will be shut up in his room, probably in bed.Neither the engineers nor the ship's crew can see us.  Conseil and Iwill gain the central staircase, and you, M. Aronnax, will remain inthe library, two steps from us, waiting my signal.  The oars, the mast,and the sail are in the canoe.  I have even succeeded in getting someprovisions.  I have procured an English wrench, to unfasten the boltswhich attach it to the shell of the Nautilus.  So all is ready, tillto-night."
"The sea is bad."
"That I allow," replied the Canadian; "but we must risk that.  Libertyis worth paying for; besides, the boat is strong, and a few miles witha fair wind to carry us is no great thing.  Who knows but by to-morrowwe may be a hundred leagues away?  Let circumstances only favour us,and by ten or eleven o'clock we shall have landed on some spot of terrafirma, alive or dead.  But adieu now till to-night."
With these words the Canadian withdrew, leaving me almost dumb.  I hadimagined that, the chance gone, I should have time to reflect anddiscuss the matter.  My obstinate companion had given me no time; and,after all, what could I have said to him?  Ned Land was perfectlyright.  There was almost the opportunity to profit by.  Could I retractmy word, and take upon myself the responsibility of compromising thefuture of my companions?  To-morrow Captain Nemo might take us far fromall land.
At that moment a rather loud hissing noise told me that the reservoirswere filling, and that the Nautilus was sinking under the waves of theAtlantic.
A sad day I passed, between the desire of regaining my liberty ofaction and of abandoning the wonderful Nautilus, and leaving mysubmarine studies incomplete.
What dreadful hours I passed thus!  Sometimes seeing myself andcompanions safely landed, sometimes wishing, in spite of my reason,that some unforeseen circumstance, would prevent the realisation of NedLand's project.
Twice I went to the saloon.  I wished to consult the compass.  I wishedto see if the direction the Nautilus was taking was bringing us neareror taking us farther from the coast.  But no; the Nautilus kept inPortuguese waters.
I must therefore take my part and prepare for flight.  My luggage wasnot heavy; my notes, nothing more.
As to Captain Nemo, I asked myself what he would think of our escape;what trouble, what wrong it might cause him and what he might do incase of its discovery or failure.  Certainly I had no cause to complainof him; on the contrary, never was hospitality freer than his.  Inleaving him I could not be taxed with ingratitude.  No oath bound us tohim.  It was on the strength of circumstances he relied, and not uponour word, to fix us for ever.
I had not seen the Captain since our visit to the Island of Santorin.Would chance bring me to his presence before our departure?  I wishedit, and I feared it at the same time.  I listened if I could hear himwalking the room contiguous to mine.  No sound reached my ear.  I feltan unbearable uneasiness.  This day of waiting seemed eternal.  Hoursstruck too slowly to keep pace with my impatience.
My dinner was served in my room as usual.  I ate but little; I was toopreoccupied.  I left the table at seven o'clock. A hundred and twentyminutes (I counted them) still separated me from the moment in which Iwas to join Ned Land.  My agitation redoubled.  My pulse beatviolently.  I could not remain quiet.  I went and came, hoping to calmmy troubled spirit by constant movement.  The idea of failure in ourbold enterprise was the least painful of my anxieties; but the thoughtof seeing our project discovered before leaving the Nautilus, of beingbrought before Captain Nemo, irritated, or (what was worse) saddened,at my desertion, made my heart beat.
I wanted to see the saloon for the last time.  I descended the stairsand arrived in the museum, where I had passed so many useful andagreeable hours.  I looked at all its riches, all its treasures, like aman on the eve of an eternal exile, who was leaving never to return.
These wonders of Nature, these masterpieces of art, amongst which forso many days my life had been concentrated, I was going to abandon themfor ever!  I should like to have taken a last look through the windowsof the saloon into the waters of the Atlantic:  but the panels werehermetically closed, and a cloak of steel separated me from that oceanwhich I had not yet explored.
In passing through the saloon, I came near the door let into the anglewhich opened into the Captain's room.  To my great surprise, this doorwas ajar.  I drew back involuntarily.  If Captain Nemo should be in hisroom, he could see me.  But, hearing no sound, I drew nearer.  The roomwas deserted.  I pushed open the door and took some steps forward.Still the same monklike severity of aspect.
Suddenly the clock struck eight.  The first beat of the hammer on thebell awoke me from my dreams.  I trembled as if an invisible eye hadplunged into my most secret thoughts, and I hurried from the room.
There my eye fell upon the compass.  Our course was still north.  Thelog indicated moderate speed, the manometer a depth of about sixty feet.
I returned to my room, clothed myself warmly--sea boots, an otterskincap, a great coat of byssus, lined with sealskin; I was ready, I waswaiting.  The vibration of the screw alone broke the deep silence whichreigned on board.  I listened attentively.  Would no loud voicesuddenly inform me that Ned Land had been surprised in his projectedflight.  A mortal dread hung over me, and I vainly tried to regain myaccustomed coolness.
At a few minutes to nine, I put my ear to the Captain's door.  Nonoise.  I left my room and returned to the saloon, which was half inobscurity, but deserted.
I opened the door communicating with the library.  The sameinsufficient light, the same solitude.  I placed myself near the doorleading to the central staircase, and there waited for Ned Land'ssignal.
At that moment the trembling of the screw sensibly diminished, then itstopped entirely.  The silence was now only disturbed by the beatingsof my own heart.  Suddenly a slight shock was felt; and I knew that theNautilus had stopped at the bottom of the ocean.  My uneasinessincreased.  The Canadian's signal did not come.  I felt inclined tojoin Ned Land and beg of him to put off his attempt.  I felt that wewere not sailing under our usual conditions.
At this moment the door of the large saloon opened, and Captain Nemoappeared.  He saw me, and without further preamble began in an amiabletone of voice:
"Ah, sir!  I have been looking for you.  Do you know the history ofSpain?"
Now, one might know the history of one's own country by heart; but inthe condition I was at the time, with troubled mind and head quitelost, I could not have said a word of it.
"Well," continued Captain Nemo, "you heard my question!  Do you knowthe history of Spain?"
"Very slightly," I answered.
"Well, here are learned men having to learn," said the Captain.  "Come,sit down, and I will tell you a curious episode in this history.  Sir,listen well," said he; "this history will interest you on one side, forit will answer a question which doubtless you have not been able tosolve."
"I listen, Captain," said I, not knowing what my interlocutor wasdriving at, and asking myself if this incident was bearing on ourprojected flight.
"Sir, if you have no objection, we will go back to 1702.  You cannot beignorant that your king, Louis XIV, thinking that the gesture of apotentate was sufficient to bring the Pyrenees under his yoke, hadimposed the Duke of Anjou, his grandson, on the Spaniards.  This princereigned more or less badly under the name of Philip V, and had a strongparty against him abroad.  Indeed, the preceding year, the royal housesof Holland, Austria, and England had concluded a treaty of alliance atthe Hague, with the intention of plucking the crown of Spain from thehead of Philip V, and placing it on that of an archduke to whom theyprematurely gave the title of Charles III.
"Spain must resist this coalition; but she was almost entirelyunprovided with either soldiers or sailors.  However, money would notfail them, provided that their galleons, laden with gold and silverfrom America, once entered their ports.  And about the end of 1702 theyexpected a rich convoy which France was escorting with a fleet oftwenty-three vessels, commanded by Admiral Chateau-Renaud, for theships of the coalition were already beating the Atlantic.  This convoywas to go to Cadiz, but the Admiral, hearing that an English fleet wascruising in those waters, resolved to make for a French port.
"The Spanish commanders of the convoy objected to this decision.  Theywanted to be taken to a Spanish port, and, if not to Cadiz, into VigoBay, situated on the northwest coast of Spain, and which was notblocked.
"Admiral Chateau-Renaud had the rashness to obey this injunction, andthe galleons entered Vigo Bay.
"Unfortunately, it formed an open road which could not be defended inany way.  They must therefore hasten to unload the galleons before thearrival of the combined fleet; and time would not have failed them hadnot a miserable question of rivalry suddenly arisen.
"You are following the chain of events?" asked Captain Nemo.
"Perfectly," said I, not knowing the end proposed by this historicallesson.
"I will continue.  This is what passed.  The merchants of Cadiz had aprivilege by which they had the right of receiving all merchandisecoming from the West Indies.  Now, to disembark these ingots at theport of Vigo was depriving them of their rights.  They complained atMadrid, and obtained the consent of the weak-minded Philip that theconvoy, without discharging its cargo, should remain sequestered in theroads of Vigo until the enemy had disappeared.
"But whilst coming to this decision, on the 22nd of October, 1702, theEnglish vessels arrived in Vigo Bay, when Admiral Chateau-Renaud, inspite of inferior forces, fought bravely.  But, seeing that thetreasure must fall into the enemy's hands, he burnt and scuttled everygalleon, which went to the bottom with their immense riches."
Captain Nemo stopped.  I admit I could not see yet why this historyshould interest me.
"Well?"  I asked.
"Well, M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, "we are in that Vigo Bay; andit rests with yourself whether you will penetrate its mysteries."
The Captain rose, telling me to follow him.  I had had time to recover.I obeyed.  The saloon was dark, but through the transparent glass thewaves were sparkling.  I looked.
For half a mile around the Nautilus, the waters seemed bathed inelectric light.  The sandy bottom was clean and bright.  Some of theship's crew in their diving-dresses were clearing away half-rottenbarrels and empty cases from the midst of the blackened wrecks.  Fromthese cases and from these barrels escaped ingots of gold and silver,cascades of piastres and jewels.  The sand was heaped up with them.Laden with their precious booty, the men returned to the Nautilus,disposed of their burden, and went back to this inexhaustible fisheryof gold and silver.
I understood now.  This was the scene of the battle of the 22nd ofOctober, 1702.  Here on this very spot the galleons laden for theSpanish Government had sunk.  Here Captain Nemo came, according to hiswants, to pack up those millions with which he burdened the Nautilus.It was for him and him alone America had given up her precious metals.He was heir direct, without anyone to share, in those treasures tornfrom the Incas and from the conquered of Ferdinand Cortez.
"Did you know, sir," he asked, smiling, "that the sea contained suchriches?"
"I knew," I answered, "that they value money held in suspension inthese waters at two millions."
"Doubtless; but to extract this money the expense would be greater thanthe profit.  Here, on the contrary, I have but to pick up what man haslost--and not only in Vigo Bay, but in a thousand other ports whereshipwrecks have happened, and which are marked on my submarine map.Can you understand now the source of the millions I am worth?"
"I understand, Captain.  But allow me to tell you that in exploringVigo Bay you have only been beforehand with a rival society."
"And which?"
"A society which has received from the Spanish Government the privilegeof seeking those buried galleons.  The shareholders are led on by theallurement of an enormous bounty, for they value these rich shipwrecksat five hundred millions."
"Five hundred millions they were," answered Captain Nemo, "but they areso no longer."
"Just so," said I; "and a warning to those shareholders would be an actof charity.  But who knows if it would be well received?  What gamblersusually regret above all is less the loss of their money than of theirfoolish hopes.  After all, I pity them less than the thousands ofunfortunates to whom so much riches well-distributed would have beenprofitable, whilst for them they will be for ever barren."
I had no sooner expressed this regret than I felt that it must havewounded Captain Nemo.
"Barren!" he exclaimed, with animation.  "Do you think then, sir, thatthese riches are lost because I gather them?  Is it for myself alone,according to your idea, that I take the trouble to collect thesetreasures?  Who told you that I did not make a good use of it?  Do youthink I am ignorant that there are suffering beings and oppressed raceson this earth, miserable creatures to console, victims to avenge?  Doyou not understand?"
Captain Nemo stopped at these last words, regretting perhaps that hehad spoken so much.  But I had guessed that, whatever the motive whichhad forced him to seek independence under the sea, it had left himstill a man, that his heart still beat for the sufferings of humanity,and that his immense charity was for oppressed races as well asindividuals.  And I then understood for whom those millions weredestined which were forwarded by Captain Nemo when the Nautilus wascruising in the waters of Crete.


CHAPTER IX
A VANISHED CONTINENT
The next morning, the 19th of February, I saw the Canadian enter myroom.  I expected this visit.  He looked very disappointed.
"Well, sir?" said he.
"Well, Ned, fortune was against us yesterday."
"Yes; that Captain must needs stop exactly at the hour we intendedleaving his vessel."
"Yes, Ned, he had business at his bankers."
"His bankers!"
"Or rather his banking-house; by that I mean the ocean, where hisriches are safer than in the chests of the State."
I then related to the Canadian the incidents of the preceding night,hoping to bring him back to the idea of not abandoning the Captain; butmy recital had no other result than an energetically expressed regretfrom Ned that he had not been able to take a walk on the battlefield ofVigo on his own account.
"However," said he, "all is not ended.  It is only a blow of theharpoon lost.  Another time we must succeed; and to-night, ifnecessary----"
"In what direction is the Nautilus going?"  I asked.
"I do not know," replied Ned.
"Well, at noon we shall see the point."
The Canadian returned to Conseil.  As soon as I was dressed, I wentinto the saloon.  The compass was not reassuring.  The course of theNautilus was S.S.W. We were turning our backs on Europe.
I waited with some impatience till the ship's place was pricked on thechart.  At about half-past eleven the reservoirs were emptied, and ourvessel rose to the surface of the ocean.  I rushed towards theplatform.  Ned Land had preceded me.  No more land in sight.  Nothingbut an immense sea.  Some sails on the horizon, doubtless those goingto San Roque in search of favourable winds for doubling the Cape ofGood Hope.  The weather was cloudy.  A gale of wind was preparing.  Nedraved, and tried to pierce the cloudy horizon.  He still hoped thatbehind all that fog stretched the land he so longed for.
At noon the sun showed itself for an instant.  The second profited bythis brightness to take its height.  Then, the sea becoming morebillowy, we descended, and the panel closed.
An hour after, upon consulting the chart, I saw the position of theNautilus was marked at 16° 17' long., and 33° 22' lat., at 150leagues from the nearest coast.  There was no means of flight, and Ileave you to imagine the rage of the Canadian when I informed him ofour situation.
For myself, I was not particularly sorry.  I felt lightened of the loadwhich had oppressed me, and was able to return with some degree ofcalmness to my accustomed work.
That night, about eleven o'clock, I received a most unexpected visitfrom Captain Nemo.  He asked me very graciously if I felt fatigued frommy watch of the preceding night.  I answered in the negative.
"Then, M. Aronnax, I propose a curious excursion."
"Propose, Captain?"
"You have hitherto only visited the submarine depths by daylight, underthe brightness of the sun.  Would it suit you to see them in thedarkness of the night?"
"Most willingly."
"I warn you, the way will be tiring.  We shall have far to walk, andmust climb a mountain.  The roads are not well kept."
"What you say, Captain, only heightens my curiosity; I am ready tofollow you."
"Come then, sir, we will put on our diving-dresses."
Arrived at the robing-room, I saw that neither of my companions nor anyof the ship's crew were to follow us on this excursion.  Captain Nemohad not even proposed my taking with me either Ned or Conseil.
In a few moments we had put on our diving-dresses; they placed on ourbacks the reservoirs, abundantly filled with air, but no electric lampswere prepared.  I called the Captain's attention to the fact.
"They will be useless," he replied.
I thought I had not heard aright, but I could not repeat myobservation, for the Captain's head had already disappeared in itsmetal case.  I finished harnessing myself.  I felt them put aniron-pointed stick into my hand, and some minutes later, after goingthrough the usual form, we set foot on the bottom of the Atlantic at adepth of 150 fathoms.  Midnight was near.  The waters were profoundlydark, but Captain Nemo pointed out in the distance a reddish spot, asort of large light shining brilliantly about two miles from theNautilus.  What this fire might be, what could feed it, why and how itlit up the liquid mass, I could not say.  In any case, it did light ourway, vaguely, it is true, but I soon accustomed myself to the peculiardarkness, and I understood, under such circumstances, the uselessnessof the Ruhmkorff apparatus.
As we advanced, I heard a kind of pattering above my head.  The noiseredoubling, sometimes producing a continual shower, I soon understoodthe cause.  It was rain falling violently, and crisping the surface ofthe waves.  Instinctively the thought flashed across my mind that Ishould be wet through!  By the water! in the midst of the water!  Icould not help laughing at the odd idea.  But, indeed, in the thickdiving-dress, the liquid element is no longer felt, and one only seemsto be in an atmosphere somewhat denser than the terrestrial atmosphere.Nothing more.
After half an hour's walk the soil became stony.  Medusae, microscopiccrustacea, and pennatules lit it slightly with their phosphorescentgleam.  I caught a glimpse of pieces of stone covered with millions ofzoophytes and masses of sea weed.  My feet often slipped upon thissticky carpet of sea weed, and without my iron-tipped stick I shouldhave fallen more than once.  In turning round, I could still see thewhitish lantern of the Nautilus beginning to pale in the distance.
But the rosy light which guided us increased and lit up the horizon.The presence of this fire under water puzzled me in the highest degree.Was I going towards a natural phenomenon as yet unknown to the _savants_of the earth?  Or even (for this thought crossed my brain) had the handof man aught to do with this conflagration?  Had he fanned this flame?Was I to meet in these depths companions and friends of Captain Nemowhom he was going to visit, and who, like him, led this strangeexistence?  Should I find down there a whole colony of exiles who,weary of the miseries of this earth, had sought and found independencein the deep ocean?  All these foolish and unreasonable ideas pursuedme.  And in this condition of mind, over-excited by the succession ofwonders continually passing before my eyes, I should not have beensurprised to meet at the bottom of the sea one of those submarine townsof which Captain Nemo dreamed.
Our road grew lighter and lighter.  The white glimmer came in rays fromthe summit of a mountain about 800 feet high.  But what I saw wassimply a reflection, developed by the clearness of the waters.  Thesource of this inexplicable light was a fire on the opposite side ofthe mountain.
In the midst of this stony maze furrowing the bottom of the Atlantic,Captain Nemo advanced without hesitation.  He knew this dreary road.Doubtless he had often travelled over it, and could not lose himself.I followed him with unshaken confidence.  He seemed to me like a genieof the sea; and, as he walked before me, I could not help admiring hisstature, which was outlined in black on the luminous horizon.
It was one in the morning when we arrived at the first slopes of themountain; but to gain access to them we must venture through thedifficult paths of a vast copse.
Yes; a copse of dead trees, without leaves, without sap, treespetrified by the action of the water and here and there overtopped bygigantic pines.  It was like a coal-pit still standing, holding by theroots to the broken soil, and whose branches, like fine black papercuttings, showed distinctly on the watery ceiling.  Picture to yourselfa forest in the Hartz hanging on to the sides of the mountain, but aforest swallowed up.  The paths were encumbered with seaweed and fucus,between which grovelled a whole world of crustacea.  I went along,climbing the rocks, striding over extended trunks, breaking the seabind-weed which hung from one tree to the other; and frightening thefishes, which flew from branch to branch.  Pressing onward, I felt nofatigue.  I followed my guide, who was never tired.  What a spectacle!How can I express it? how paint the aspect of those woods and rocks inthis medium--their under parts dark and wild, the upper coloured withred tints, by that light which the reflecting powers of the watersdoubled?  We climbed rocks which fell directly after with giganticbounds and the low growling of an avalanche.  To right and left ranlong, dark galleries, where sight was lost.  Here opened vast gladeswhich the hand of man seemed to have worked; and I sometimes askedmyself if some inhabitant of these submarine regions would not suddenlyappear to me.
But Captain Nemo was still mounting.  I could not stay behind.  Ifollowed boldly.  My stick gave me good help.  A false step would havebeen dangerous on the narrow passes sloping down to the sides of thegulfs; but I walked with firm step, without feeling any giddiness.  NowI jumped a crevice, the depth of which would have made me hesitate hadit been among the glaciers on the land; now I ventured on the unsteadytrunk of a tree thrown across from one abyss to the other, withoutlooking under my feet, having only eyes to admire the wild sites ofthis region.
There, monumental rocks, leaning on their regularly-cut bases, seemedto defy all laws of equilibrium.  From between their stony knees treessprang, like a jet under heavy pressure, and upheld others which upheldthem.  Natural towers, large scarps, cut perpendicularly, like a"curtain," inclined at an angle which the laws of gravitation couldnever have tolerated in terrestrial regions.
Two hours after quitting the Nautilus we had crossed the line of trees,and a hundred feet above our heads rose the top of the mountain, whichcast a shadow on the brilliant irradiation of the opposite slope.  Somepetrified shrubs ran fantastically here and there.  Fishes got up underour feet like birds in the long grass.  The massive rocks were rentwith impenetrable fractures, deep grottos, and unfathomable holes, atthe bottom of which formidable creatures might be heard moving.  Myblood curdled when I saw enormous antennae blocking my road, or somefrightful claw closing with a noise in the shadow of some cavity.Millions of luminous spots shone brightly in the midst of the darkness.They were the eyes of giant crustacea crouched in their holes; giantlobsters setting themselves up like halberdiers, and moving their clawswith the clicking sound of pincers; titanic crabs, pointed like a gunon its carriage; and frightful-looking poulps, interweaving theirtentacles like a living nest of serpents.
We had now arrived on the first platform, where other surprises awaitedme.  Before us lay some picturesque ruins, which betrayed the hand ofman and not that of the Creator.  There were vast heaps of stone,amongst which might be traced the vague and shadowy forms of castlesand temples, clothed with a world of blossoming zoophytes, and overwhich, instead of ivy, sea-weed and fucus threw a thick vegetablemantle.  But what was this portion of the globe which had beenswallowed by cataclysms?  Who had placed those rocks and stones likecromlechs of prehistoric times?  Where was I?  Whither had CaptainNemo's fancy hurried me?
I would fain have asked him; not being able to, I stopped him--I seizedhis arm.  But, shaking his head, and pointing to the highest point ofthe mountain, he seemed to say:
"Come, come along; come higher!"
I followed, and in a few minutes I had climbed to the top, which for acircle of ten yards commanded the whole mass of rock.
I looked down the side we had just climbed.  The mountain did not risemore than seven or eight hundred feet above the level of the plain; buton the opposite side it commanded from twice that height the depths ofthis part of the Atlantic.  My eyes ranged far over a large space litby a violent fulguration.  In fact, the mountain was a volcano.
At fifty feet above the peak, in the midst of a rain of stones andscoriae, a large crater was vomiting forth torrents of lava which fellin a cascade of fire into the bosom of the liquid mass.  Thus situated,this volcano lit the lower plain like an immense torch, even to theextreme limits of the horizon.  I said that the submarine crater threwup lava, but no flames.  Flames require the oxygen of the air to feedupon and cannot be developed under water; but streams of lava, havingin themselves the principles of their incandescence, can attain a whiteheat, fight vigorously against the liquid element, and turn it tovapour by contact.
Rapid currents bearing all these gases in diffusion and torrents oflava slid to the bottom of the mountain like an eruption of Vesuvius onanother Terra del Greco.
There indeed under my eyes, ruined, destroyed, lay a town--its roofsopen to the sky, its temples fallen, its arches dislocated, its columnslying on the ground, from which one would still recognise the massivecharacter of Tuscan architecture.  Further on, some remains of agigantic aqueduct; here the high base of an Acropolis, with thefloating outline of a Parthenon; there traces of a quay, as if anancient port had formerly abutted on the borders of the ocean, anddisappeared with its merchant vessels and its war-galleys. Farther onagain, long lines of sunken walls and broad, deserted streets--aperfect Pompeii escaped beneath the waters.  Such was the sight thatCaptain Nemo brought before my eyes!
Where was I?  Where was I?  I must know at any cost.  I tried to speak,but Captain Nemo stopped me by a gesture, and, picking up a piece ofchalk-stone, advanced to a rock of black basalt, and traced the oneword:

ATLANTIS

What a light shot through my mind!  Atlantis! the Atlantis of Plato,that continent denied by Origen and Humbolt, who placed itsdisappearance amongst the legendary tales.  I had it there now beforemy eyes, bearing upon it the unexceptionable testimony of itscatastrophe.  The region thus engulfed was beyond Europe, Asia, andLybia, beyond the columns of Hercules, where those powerful people, theAtlantides, lived, against whom the first wars of ancient Greeks werewaged.
Thus, led by the strangest destiny, I was treading under foot themountains of this continent, touching with my hand those ruins athousand generations old and contemporary with the geological epochs.I was walking on the very spot where the contemporaries of the firstman had walked.
Whilst I was trying to fix in my mind every detail of this grandlandscape, Captain Nemo remained motionless, as if petrified in muteecstasy, leaning on a mossy stone.  Was he dreaming of thosegenerations long since disappeared?  Was he asking them the secret ofhuman destiny?  Was it here this strange man came to steep himself inhistorical recollections, and live again this ancient life--he whowanted no modern one?  What would I not have given to know histhoughts, to share them, to understand them!  We remained for an hourat this place, contemplating the vast plains under the brightness ofthe lava, which was some times wonderfully intense.  Rapid tremblingsran along the mountain caused by internal bubblings, deep noise,distinctly transmitted through the liquid medium were echoed withmajestic grandeur.  At this moment the moon appeared through the massof waters and threw her pale rays on the buried continent.  It was buta gleam, but what an indescribable effect!  The Captain rose, cast onelast look on the immense plain, and then bade me follow him.
We descended the mountain rapidly, and, the mineral forest once passed,I saw the lantern of the Nautilus shining like a star.  The Captainwalked straight to it, and we got on board as the first rays of lightwhitened the surface of the ocean.


CHAPTER X
THE SUBMARINE COAL-MINES
The next day, the 20th of February, I awoke very late:  the fatigues ofthe previous night had prolonged my sleep until eleven o'clock. Idressed quickly, and hastened to find the course the Nautilus wastaking.  The instruments showed it to be still toward the south, with aspeed of twenty miles an hour and a depth of fifty fathoms.
The species of fishes here did not differ much from those alreadynoticed.  There were rays of giant size, five yards long, and endowedwith great muscular strength, which enabled them to shoot above thewaves; sharks of many kinds; amongst others, one fifteen feet long,with triangular sharp teeth, and whose transparency rendered it almostinvisible in the water.
Amongst bony fish Conseil noticed some about three yards long, armed atthe upper jaw with a piercing sword; other bright-coloured creatures,known in the time of Aristotle by the name of the sea-dragon, which aredangerous to capture on account of the spikes on their back.
About four o'clock, the soil, generally composed of a thick mud mixedwith petrified wood, changed by degrees, and it became more stony, andseemed strewn with conglomerate and pieces of basalt, with a sprinklingof lava.  I thought that a mountainous region was succeeding the longplains; and accordingly, after a few evolutions of the Nautilus, I sawthe southerly horizon blocked by a high wall which seemed to close allexit.  Its summit evidently passed the level of the ocean.  It must bea continent, or at least an island--one of the Canaries, or of the CapeVerde Islands.  The bearings not being yet taken, perhaps designedly, Iwas ignorant of our exact position.  In any case, such a wall seemed tome to mark the limits of that Atlantis, of which we had in realitypassed over only the smallest part.
Much longer should I have remained at the window admiring the beautiesof sea and sky, but the panels closed.  At this moment the Nautilusarrived at the side of this high, perpendicular wall.  What it woulddo, I could not guess.  I returned to my room; it no longer moved.  Ilaid myself down with the full intention of waking after a few hours'sleep; but it was eight o'clock the next day when I entered the saloon.I looked at the manometer.  It told me that the Nautilus was floatingon the surface of the ocean.  Besides, I heard steps on the platform.I went to the panel.  It was open; but, instead of broad daylight, as Iexpected, I was surrounded by profound darkness.  Where were we?  Was Imistaken?  Was it still night?  No; not a star was shining and nighthas not that utter darkness.
I knew not what to think, when a voice near me said:
"Is that you, Professor?"
"Ah!  Captain," I answered, "where are we?"
"Underground, sir."
"Underground!"  I exclaimed.  "And the Nautilus floating still?"
"It always floats."
"But I do not understand."
"Wait a few minutes, our lantern will be lit, and, if you like lightplaces, you will be satisfied."
I stood on the platform and waited.  The darkness was so complete thatI could not even see Captain Nemo; but, looking to the zenith, exactlyabove my head, I seemed to catch an undecided gleam, a kind of twilightfilling a circular hole.  At this instant the lantern was lit, and itsvividness dispelled the faint light.  I closed my dazzled eyes for aninstant, and then looked again.  The Nautilus was stationary, floatingnear a mountain which formed a sort of quay.  The lake, then,supporting it was a lake imprisoned by a circle of walls, measuring twomiles in diameter and six in circumference.  Its level (the manometershowed) could only be the same as the outside level, for there mustnecessarily be a communication between the lake and the sea.  The highpartitions, leaning forward on their base, grew into a vaulted roofbearing the shape of an immense funnel turned upside down, the heightbeing about five or six hundred yards.  At the summit was a circularorifice, by which I had caught the slight gleam of light, evidentlydaylight.
"Where are we?"  I asked.
"In the very heart of an extinct volcano, the interior of which hasbeen invaded by the sea, after some great convulsion of the earth.Whilst you were sleeping, Professor, the Nautilus penetrated to thislagoon by a natural canal, which opens about ten yards beneath thesurface of the ocean.  This is its harbour of refuge, a sure,commodious, and mysterious one, sheltered from all gales.  Show me, ifyou can, on the coasts of any of your continents or islands, a roadwhich can give such perfect refuge from all storms."
"Certainly," I replied, "you are in safety here, Captain Nemo.  Whocould reach you in the heart of a volcano?  But did I not see anopening at its summit?"
"Yes; its crater, formerly filled with lava, vapour, and flames, andwhich now gives entrance to the life-giving air we breathe."
"But what is this volcanic mountain?"
"It belongs to one of the numerous islands with which this sea isstrewn--to vessels a simple sandbank--to us an immense cavern.  Chanceled me to discover it, and chance served me well."
"But of what use is this refuge, Captain?  The Nautilus wants no port."
"No, sir; but it wants electricity to make it move, and the wherewithalto make the electricity--sodium to feed the elements, coal from whichto get the sodium, and a coal-mine to supply the coal.  And exactly onthis spot the sea covers entire forests embedded during the geologicalperiods, now mineralised and transformed into coal; for me they are aninexhaustible mine."
"Your men follow the trade of miners here, then, Captain?"
"Exactly so.  These mines extend under the waves like the mines ofNewcastle.  Here, in their diving-dresses, pick axe and shovel in hand,my men extract the coal, which I do not even ask from the mines of theearth.  When I burn this combustible for the manufacture of sodium, thesmoke, escaping from the crater of the mountain, gives it theappearance of a still-active volcano."
"And we shall see your companions at work?"
"No; not this time at least; for I am in a hurry to continue oursubmarine tour of the earth.  So I shall content myself with drawingfrom the reserve of sodium I already possess.  The time for loading isone day only, and we continue our voyage.  So, if you wish to go overthe cavern and make the round of the lagoon, you must take advantage ofto-day, M. Aronnax."
I thanked the Captain and went to look for my companions, who had notyet left their cabin.  I invited them to follow me without saying wherewe were.  They mounted the platform.  Conseil, who was astonished atnothing, seemed to look upon it as quite natural that he should wakeunder a mountain, after having fallen asleep under the waves.  But NedLand thought of nothing but finding whether the cavern had any exit.After breakfast, about ten o'clock, we went down on to the mountain.
"Here we are, once more on land," said Conseil.
"I do not call this land," said the Canadian.  "And besides, we are noton it, but beneath it."
Between the walls of the mountains and the waters of the lake lay asandy shore which, at its greatest breadth, measured five hundred feet.On this soil one might easily make the tour of the lake.  But the baseof the high partitions was stony ground, with volcanic locks andenormous pumice-stones lying in picturesque heaps.  All these detachedmasses, covered with enamel, polished by the action of thesubterraneous fires, shone resplendent by the light of our electriclantern.  The mica dust from the shore, rising under our feet, flewlike a cloud of sparks.  The bottom now rose sensibly, and we soonarrived at long circuitous slopes, or inclined planes, which took ushigher by degrees; but we were obliged to walk carefully among theseconglomerates, bound by no cement, the feet slipping on the glassycrystal, felspar, and quartz.
The volcanic nature of this enormous excavation was confirmed on allsides, and I pointed it out to my companions.
"Picture to yourselves," said I, "what this crater must have been whenfilled with boiling lava, and when the level of the incandescent liquidrose to the orifice of the mountain, as though melted on the top of ahot plate."
"I can picture it perfectly," said Conseil.  "But, sir, will you tellme why the Great Architect has suspended operations, and how it is thatthe furnace is replaced by the quiet waters of the lake?"
"Most probably, Conseil, because some convulsion beneath the oceanproduced that very opening which has served as a passage for theNautilus.  Then the waters of the Atlantic rushed into the interior ofthe mountain.  There must have been a terrible struggle between the twoelements, a struggle which ended in the victory of Neptune.  But manyages have run out since then, and the submerged volcano is now apeaceable grotto."
"Very well," replied Ned Land; "I accept the explanation, sir; but, inour own interests, I regret that the opening of which you speak was notmade above the level of the sea."
"But, friend Ned," said Conseil, "if the passage had not been under thesea, the Nautilus could not have gone through it."
We continued ascending.  The steps became more and more perpendicularand narrow.  Deep excavations, which we were obliged to cross, cut themhere and there; sloping masses had to be turned.  We slid upon ourknees and crawled along.  But Conseil's dexterity and the Canadian'sstrength surmounted all obstacles.  At a height of about 31 feet thenature of the ground changed without becoming more practicable.  To theconglomerate and trachyte succeeded black basalt, the first dispread inlayers full of bubbles, the latter forming regular prisms, placed likea colonnade supporting the spring of the immense vault, an admirablespecimen of natural architecture.  Between the blocks of basalt woundlong streams of lava, long since grown cold, encrusted with bituminousrays; and in some places there were spread large carpets of sulphur.  Amore powerful light shone through the upper crater, shedding a vagueglimmer over these volcanic depressions for ever buried in the bosom ofthis extinguished mountain.  But our upward march was soon stopped at aheight of about two hundred and fifty feet by impassable obstacles.There was a complete vaulted arch overhanging us, and our ascent waschanged to a circular walk.  At the last change vegetable life began tostruggle with the mineral.  Some shrubs, and even some trees, grew fromthe fractures of the walls.  I recognised some euphorbias, with thecaustic sugar coming from them; heliotropes, quite incapable ofjustifying their name, sadly drooped their clusters of flowers, boththeir colour and perfume half gone.  Here and there some chrysanthemumsgrew timidly at the foot of an aloe with long, sickly-looking leaves.But between the streams of lava, I saw some little violets stillslightly perfumed, and I admit that I smelt them with delight.  Perfumeis the soul of the flower, and sea-flowers have no soul.
We had arrived at the foot of some sturdy dragon-trees, which hadpushed aside the rocks with their strong roots, when Ned Land exclaimed:
"Ah! sir, a hive! a hive!"
"A hive!"  I replied, with a gesture of incredulity.
"Yes, a hive," repeated the Canadian, "and bees humming round it."
I approached, and was bound to believe my own eyes.  There at a holebored in one of the dragon-trees were some thousands of these ingeniousinsects, so common in all the Canaries, and whose produce is so muchesteemed.  Naturally enough, the Canadian wished to gather the honey,and I could not well oppose his wish.  A quantity of dry leaves, mixedwith sulphur, he lit with a spark from his flint, and he began to smokeout the bees.  The humming ceased by degrees, and the hive eventuallyyielded several pounds of the sweetest honey, with which Ned Landfilled his haversack.
"When I have mixed this honey with the paste of the bread-fruit," saidhe, "I shall be able to offer you a succulent cake."
[Transcriber's Note: 'bread-fruit' has been substituted for'artocarpus' in this ed.]
"'Pon my word," said Conseil, "it will be gingerbread."
"Never mind the gingerbread," said I; "let us continue our interestingwalk."
At every turn of the path we were following, the lake appeared in allits length and breadth.  The lantern lit up the whole of its peaceablesurface, which knew neither ripple nor wave.  The Nautilus remainedperfectly immovable.  On the platform, and on the mountain, the ship'screw were working like black shadows clearly carved against theluminous atmosphere.  We were now going round the highest crest of thefirst layers of rock which upheld the roof.  I then saw that bees werenot the only representatives of the animal kingdom in the interior ofthis volcano.  Birds of prey hovered here and there in the shadows, orfled from their nests on the top of the rocks.  There were sparrowhawks, with white breasts, and kestrels, and down the slopes scampered,with their long legs, several fine fat bustards.  I leave anyone toimagine the covetousness of the Canadian at the sight of this savourygame, and whether he did not regret having no gun.  But he did his bestto replace the lead by stones, and, after several fruitless attempts,he succeeded in wounding a magnificent bird.  To say that he risked hislife twenty times before reaching it is but the truth; but he managedso well that the creature joined the honey-cakes in his bag.  We werenow obliged to descend toward the shore, the crest becomingimpracticable.  Above us the crater seemed to gape like the mouth of awell.  From this place the sky could be clearly seen, and clouds,dissipated by the west wind, leaving behind them, even on the summit ofthe mountain, their misty remnants--certain proof that they were onlymoderately high, for the volcano did not rise more than eight hundredfeet above the level of the ocean.  Half an hour after the Canadian'slast exploit we had regained the inner shore.  Here the flora wasrepresented by large carpets of marine crystal, a little umbelliferousplant very good to pickle, which also bears the name of pierce-stoneand sea-fennel. Conseil gathered some bundles of it.  As to the fauna,it might be counted by thousands of crustacea of all sorts, lobsters,crabs, spider-crabs, chameleon shrimps, and a large number of shells,rockfish, and limpets.  Three-quarters of an hour later we had finishedour circuitous walk and were on board.  The crew had just finishedloading the sodium, and the Nautilus could have left that instant.  ButCaptain Nemo gave no order.  Did he wish to wait until night, and leavethe submarine passage secretly?  Perhaps so.  Whatever it might be, thenext day, the Nautilus, having left its port, steered clear of all landat a few yards beneath the waves of the Atlantic.


CHAPTER XI
THE SARGASSO SEA
That day the Nautilus crossed a singular part of the Atlantic Ocean.No one can be ignorant of the existence of a current of warm waterknown by the name of the Gulf Stream.  After leaving the Gulf ofFlorida, we went in the direction of Spitzbergen.  But before enteringthe Gulf of Mexico, about 45° of N. lat., this current divides intotwo arms, the principal one going towards the coast of Ireland andNorway, whilst the second bends to the south about the height of theAzores; then, touching the African shore, and describing a lengthenedoval, returns to the Antilles.  This second arm--it is rather a collarthan an arm--surrounds with its circles of warm water that portion ofthe cold, quiet, immovable ocean called the Sargasso Sea, a perfectlake in the open Atlantic: it takes no less than three years for thegreat current to pass round it.  Such was the region the Nautilus wasnow visiting, a perfect meadow, a close carpet of seaweed, fucus, andtropical berries, so thick and so compact that the stem of a vesselcould hardly tear its way through it.  And Captain Nemo, not wishing toentangle his screw in this herbaceous mass, kept some yards beneath thesurface of the waves.  The name Sargasso comes from the Spanish word"sargazzo" which signifies kelp.  This kelp, or berry-plant, is theprincipal formation of this immense bank.  And this is the reason whythese plants unite in the peaceful basin of the Atlantic.  The onlyexplanation which can be given, he says, seems to me to result from theexperience known to all the world.  Place in a vase some fragments ofcork or other floating body, and give to the water in the vase acircular movement, the scattered fragments will unite in a group in thecentre of the liquid surface, that is to say, in the part leastagitated.  In the phenomenon we are considering, the Atlantic is thevase, the Gulf Stream the circular current, and the Sargasso Sea thecentral point at which the floating bodies unite.
I share Maury's opinion, and I was able to study the phenomenon in thevery midst, where vessels rarely penetrate.  Above us floated productsof all kinds, heaped up among these brownish plants; trunks of treestorn from the Andes or the Rocky Mountains, and floated by the Amazonor the Mississippi; numerous wrecks, remains of keels, or ships'bottoms, side-planks stove in, and so weighted with shells andbarnacles that they could not again rise to the surface.  And time willone day justify Maury's other opinion, that these substances thusaccumulated for ages will become petrified by the action of the waterand will then form inexhaustible coal-mines--a precious reserveprepared by far-seeing Nature for the moment when men shall haveexhausted the mines of continents.
In the midst of this inextricable mass of plants and sea weed, Inoticed some charming pink halcyons and actiniae, with their longtentacles trailing after them, and medusae, green, red, and blue.
All the day of the 22nd of February we passed in the Sargasso Sea,where such fish as are partial to marine plants find abundantnourishment.  The next, the ocean had returned to its accustomedaspect.  From this time for nineteen days, from the 23rd of February tothe 12th of March, the Nautilus kept in the middle of the Atlantic,carrying us at a constant speed of a hundred leagues in twenty-fourhours.  Captain Nemo evidently intended accomplishing his submarineprogramme, and I imagined that he intended, after doubling Cape Horn,to return to the Australian seas of the Pacific.  Ned Land had causefor fear.  In these large seas, void of islands, we could not attemptto leave the boat.  Nor had we any means of opposing Captain Nemo'swill.  Our only course was to submit; but what we could neither gain byforce nor cunning, I liked to think might be obtained by persuasion.This voyage ended, would he not consent to restore our liberty, underan oath never to reveal his existence?--an oath of honour which weshould have religiously kept.  But we must consider that delicatequestion with the Captain.  But was I free to claim this liberty?  Hadhe not himself said from the beginning, in the firmest manner, that thesecret of his life exacted from him our lasting imprisonment on boardthe Nautilus?  And would not my four months' silence appear to him atacit acceptance of our situation?  And would not a return to thesubject result in raising suspicions which might be hurtful to ourprojects, if at some future time a favourable opportunity offered toreturn to them?
During the nineteen days mentioned above, no incident of any kindhappened to signalise our voyage.  I saw little of the Captain; he wasat work.  In the library I often found his books left open, especiallythose on natural history.  My work on submarine depths, conned over byhim, was covered with marginal notes, often contradicting my theoriesand systems; but the Captain contented himself with thus purging mywork; it was very rare for him to discuss it with me.  Sometimes Iheard the melancholy tones of his organ; but only at night, in themidst of the deepest obscurity, when the Nautilus slept upon thedeserted ocean.  During this part of our voyage we sailed whole days onthe surface of the waves.  The sea seemed abandoned.  A fewsailing-vessels, on the road to India, were making for the Cape of GoodHope.  One day we were followed by the boats of a whaler, who, nodoubt, took us for some enormous whale of great price; but Captain Nemodid not wish the worthy fellows to lose their time and trouble, soended the chase by plunging under the water.  Our navigation continueduntil the 13th of March; that day the Nautilus was employed in takingsoundings, which greatly interested me.  We had then made about 13,000leagues since our departure from the high seas of the Pacific.  Thebearings gave us 45° 37' S. lat., and 37° 53' W. long.  It wasthe same water in which Captain Denham of the Herald sounded 7,000fathoms without finding the bottom.  There, too, Lieutenant Parker, ofthe American frigate Congress, could not touch the bottom with 15,140fathoms.  Captain Nemo intended seeking the bottom of the ocean by adiagonal sufficiently lengthened by means of lateral planes placed atan angle of 45° with the water-line of the Nautilus.  Then thescrew set to work at its maximum speed, its four blades beating thewaves with in describable force.  Under this powerful pressure, thehull of the Nautilus quivered like a sonorous chord and sank regularlyunder the water.
At 7,000 fathoms I saw some blackish tops rising from the midst of thewaters; but these summits might belong to high mountains like theHimalayas or Mont Blanc, even higher; and the depth of the abyssremained incalculable.  The Nautilus descended still lower, in spite ofthe great pressure.  I felt the steel plates tremble at the fasteningsof the bolts; its bars bent, its partitions groaned; the windows of thesaloon seemed to curve under the pressure of the waters.  And this firmstructure would doubtless have yielded, if, as its Captain had said, ithad not been capable of resistance like a solid block.  We had attaineda depth of 16,000 yards (four leagues), and the sides of the Nautilusthen bore a pressure of 1,600 atmospheres, that is to say, 3,200 lb.to each square two-fifths of an inch of its surface.
"What a situation to be in!"  I exclaimed.  "To overrun these deepregions where man has never trod!  Look, Captain, look at thesemagnificent rocks, these uninhabited grottoes, these lowest receptaclesof the globe, where life is no longer possible!  What unknown sightsare here!  Why should we be unable to preserve a remembrance of them?"
"Would you like to carry away more than the remembrance?" said CaptainNemo.
"What do you mean by those words?"
"I mean to say that nothing is easier than to make a photographic viewof this submarine region."
I had not time to express my surprise at this new proposition, when, atCaptain Nemo's call, an objective was brought into the saloon.  Throughthe widely-opened panel, the liquid mass was bright with electricity,which was distributed with such uniformity that not a shadow, not agradation, was to be seen in our manufactured light.  The Nautilusremained motionless, the force of its screw subdued by the inclinationof its planes: the instrument was propped on the bottom of the oceanicsite, and in a few seconds we had obtained a perfect negative.
But, the operation being over, Captain Nemo said, "Let us go up; wemust not abuse our position, nor expose the Nautilus too long to suchgreat pressure."
"Go up again!"  I exclaimed.
"Hold well on."
I had not time to understand why the Captain cautioned me thus, when Iwas thrown forward on to the carpet.  At a signal from the Captain, itsscrew was shipped, and its blades raised vertically; the Nautilus shotinto the air like a balloon, rising with stunning rapidity, and cuttingthe mass of waters with a sonorous agitation.  Nothing was visible; andin four minutes it had shot through the four leagues which separated itfrom the ocean, and, after emerging like a flying-fish, fell, makingthe waves rebound to an enormous height.


CHAPTER XII
CACHALOTS AND WHALES
During the nights of the 13th and 14th of March, the Nautilus returnedto its southerly course.  I fancied that, when on a level with CapeHorn, he would turn the helm westward, in order to beat the Pacificseas, and so complete the tour of the world.  He did nothing of thekind, but continued on his way to the southern regions.  Where was hegoing to?  To the pole?  It was madness!  I began to think that theCaptain's temerity justified Ned Land's fears.  For some time past theCanadian had not spoken to me of his projects of flight; he was lesscommunicative, almost silent.  I could see that this lengthenedimprisonment was weighing upon him, and I felt that rage was burningwithin him.  When he met the Captain, his eyes lit up with suppressedanger; and I feared that his natural violence would lead him into someextreme.  That day, the 14th of March, Conseil and he came to me in myroom.  I inquired the cause of their visit.
"A simple question to ask you, sir," replied the Canadian.
"Speak, Ned."
"How many men are there on board the Nautilus, do you think?"
"I cannot tell, my friend."
"I should say that its working does not require a large crew."
"Certainly, under existing conditions, ten men, at the most, ought tobe enough."
"Well, why should there be any more?"
"Why?"  I replied, looking fixedly at Ned Land, whose meaning was easyto guess.  "Because," I added, "if my surmises are correct, and if Ihave well understood the Captain's existence, the Nautilus is not onlya vessel: it is also a place of refuge for those who, like itscommander, have broken every tie upon earth."
"Perhaps so," said Conseil; "but, in any case, the Nautilus can onlycontain a certain number of men.  Could not you, sir, estimate theirmaximum?"
"How, Conseil?"
"By calculation; given the size of the vessel, which you know, sir, andconsequently the quantity of air it contains, knowing also how mucheach man expends at a breath, and comparing these results with the factthat the Nautilus is obliged to go to the surface every twenty-fourhours."
Conseil had not finished the sentence before I saw what he was drivingat.
"I understand," said I; "but that calculation, though simple enough,can give but a very uncertain result."
"Never mind," said Ned Land urgently.
"Here it is, then," said I. "In one hour each man consumes the oxygencontained in twenty gallons of air; and in twenty-four, that containedin 480 gallons.  We must, therefore find how many times 480 gallons ofair the Nautilus contains."
"Just so," said Conseil.
"Or," I continued, "the size of the Nautilus being 1,500 tons; and oneton holding 200 gallons, it contains 300,000 gallons of air, which,divided by 480, gives a quotient of 625.  Which means to say, strictlyspeaking, that the air contained in the Nautilus would suffice for 625men for twenty-four hours."
"Six hundred and twenty-five!" repeated Ned.
"But remember that all of us, passengers, sailors, and officersincluded, would not form a tenth part of that number."
"Still too many for three men," murmured Conseil.
The Canadian shook his head, passed his hand across his forehead, andleft the room without answering.
"Will you allow me to make one observation, sir?" said Conseil.  "PoorNed is longing for everything that he can not have.  His past life isalways present to him; everything that we are forbidden he regrets.His head is full of old recollections.  And we must understand him.What has he to do here?  Nothing; he is not learned like you, sir; andhas not the same taste for the beauties of the sea that we have.  Hewould risk everything to be able to go once more into a tavern in hisown country."
Certainly the monotony on board must seem intolerable to the Canadian,accustomed as he was to a life of liberty and activity.  Events wererare which could rouse him to any show of spirit; but that day an eventdid happen which recalled the bright days of the harpooner.  Abouteleven in the morning, being on the surface of the ocean, the Nautilusfell in with a troop of whales--an encounter which did not astonish me,knowing that these creatures, hunted to death, had taken refuge in highlatitudes.
We were seated on the platform, with a quiet sea.  The month of Octoberin those latitudes gave us some lovely autumnal days.  It was theCanadian--he could not be mistaken--who signalled a whale on theeastern horizon.  Looking attentively, one might see its black backrise and fall with the waves five miles from the Nautilus.
"Ah!" exclaimed Ned Land, "if I was on board a whaler, now such ameeting would give me pleasure.  It is one of large size.  See withwhat strength its blow-holes throw up columns of air an steam!Confound it, why am I bound to these steel plates?"
"What, Ned," said I, "you have not forgotten your old ideas of fishing?"
"Can a whale-fisher ever forget his old trade, sir?  Can he ever tireof the emotions caused by such a chase?"
"You have never fished in these seas, Ned?"
"Never, sir; in the northern only, and as much in Behring as in DavisStraits."
"Then the southern whale is still unknown to you.  It is the Greenlandwhale you have hunted up to this time, and that would not risk passingthrough the warm waters of the equator.  Whales are localised,according to their kinds, in certain seas which they never leave.  Andif one of these creatures went from Behring to Davis Straits, it mustbe simply because there is a passage from one sea to the other, eitheron the American or the Asiatic side."
"In that case, as I have never fished in these seas, I do not know thekind of whale frequenting them!"
"I have told you, Ned."
"A greater reason for making their acquaintance," said Conseil.
"Look! look!" exclaimed the Canadian, "they approach: they aggravateme; they know that I cannot get at them!"
Ned stamped his feet.  His hand trembled, as he grasped an imaginaryharpoon.
"Are these cetaceans as large as those of the northern seas?" asked he.
"Very nearly, Ned."
"Because I have seen large whales, sir, whales measuring a hundredfeet.  I have even been told that those of Hullamoch and Umgallick, ofthe Aleutian Islands, are sometimes a hundred and fifty feet long."
"That seems to me exaggeration. These creatures are onlybalaeaopterons, provided with dorsal fins; and, like the cachalots, aregenerally much smaller than the Greenland whale."
"Ah!" exclaimed the Canadian, whose eyes had never left the ocean,"they are coming nearer; they are in the same water as the Nautilus."
Then, returning to the conversation, he said:
"You spoke of the cachalot as a small creature.  I have heard ofgigantic ones.  They are intelligent cetacea.  It is said of some thatthey cover themselves with seaweed and fucus, and then are taken forislands.  People encamp upon them, and settle there; lights a fire----"
"And build houses," said Conseil.
"Yes, joker," said Ned Land.  "And one fine day the creature plunges,carrying with it all the inhabitants to the bottom of the sea."
"Something like the travels of Sinbad the Sailor," I replied, laughing.
"Ah!" suddenly exclaimed Ned Land, "it is not one whale; there areten--there are twenty--it is a whole troop!  And I not able to doanything! hands and feet tied!"
"But, friend Ned," said Conseil, "why do you not ask Captain Nemo'spermission to chase them?"
Conseil had not finished his sentence when Ned Land had lowered himselfthrough the panel to seek the Captain.  A few minutes afterwards thetwo appeared together on the platform.
Captain Nemo watched the troop of cetacea playing on the waters about amile from the Nautilus.
"They are southern whales," said he; "there goes the fortune of a wholefleet of whalers."
"Well, sir," asked the Canadian, "can I not chase them, if only toremind me of my old trade of harpooner?"
"And to what purpose?" replied Captain Nemo; "only to destroy!  We havenothing to do with the whale-oil on board."
"But, sir," continued the Canadian, "in the Red Sea you allowed us tofollow the dugong."
"Then it was to procure fresh meat for my crew.  Here it would bekilling for killing's sake.  I know that is a privilege reserved forman, but I do not approve of such murderous pastime.  In destroying thesouthern whale (like the Greenland whale, an inoffensive creature),your traders do a culpable action, Master Land.  They have alreadydepopulated the whole of Baffin's Bay, and are annihilating a class ofuseful animals.  Leave the unfortunate cetacea alone.  They have plentyof natural enemies--cachalots, swordfish, and sawfish--without youtroubling them."
The Captain was right.  The barbarous and inconsiderate greed of thesefishermen will one day cause the disappearance of the last whale in theocean.  Ned Land whistled "Yankee-doodle" between his teeth, thrust hishands into his pockets, and turned his back upon us.  But Captain Nemowatched the troop of cetacea, and, addressing me, said:
"I was right in saying that whales had natural enemies enough, withoutcounting man.  These will have plenty to do before long.  Do you see,M. Aronnax, about eight miles to leeward, those blackish moving points?"
"Yes, Captain," I replied.
"Those are cachalots--terrible animals, which I have met in troops oftwo or three hundred.  As to those, they are cruel, mischievouscreatures; they would be right in exterminating them."
The Canadian turned quickly at the last words.
"Well, Captain," said he, "it is still time, in the interest of thewhales."
"It is useless to expose one's self, Professor.  The Nautilus willdisperse them.  It is armed with a steel spur as good as Master Land'sharpoon, I imagine."
The Canadian did not put himself out enough to shrug his shoulders.Attack cetacea with blows of a spur!  Who had ever heard of such athing?
"Wait, M. Aronnax," said Captain Nemo.  "We will show you something youhave never yet seen.  We have no pity for these ferocious creatures.They are nothing but mouth and teeth."
Mouth and teeth!  No one could better describe the macrocephalouscachalot, which is sometimes more than seventy-five feet long.  Itsenormous head occupies one-third of its entire body.  Better armed thanthe whale, whose upper jaw is furnished only with whalebone, it issupplied with twenty-five large tusks, about eight inches long,cylindrical and conical at the top, each weighing two pounds.  It is inthe upper part of this enormous head, in great cavities divided bycartilages, that is to be found from six to eight hundred pounds ofthat precious oil called spermaceti.  The cachalot is a disagreeablecreature, more tadpole than fish, according to Fredol's description.It is badly formed, the whole of its left side being (if we may sayit), a "failure," and being only able to see with its right eye.  Butthe formidable troop was nearing us.  They had seen the whales and werepreparing to attack them.  One could judge beforehand that thecachalots would be victorious, not only because they were better builtfor attack than their inoffensive adversaries, but also because theycould remain longer under water without coming to the surface.  Therewas only just time to go to the help of the whales.  The Nautilus wentunder water.  Conseil, Ned Land, and I took our places before thewindow in the saloon, and Captain Nemo joined the pilot in his cage towork his apparatus as an engine of destruction.  Soon I felt thebeatings of the screw quicken, and our speed increased.  The battlebetween the cachalots and the whales had already begun when theNautilus arrived.  They did not at first show any fear at the sight ofthis new monster joining in the conflict.  But they soon had to guardagainst its blows.  What a battle!  The Nautilus was nothing but aformidable harpoon, brandished by the hand of its Captain.  It hurleditself against the fleshy mass, passing through from one part to theother, leaving behind it two quivering halves of the animal.  It couldnot feel the formidable blows from their tails upon its sides, nor theshock which it produced itself, much more.  One cachalot killed, it ranat the next, tacked on the spot that it might not miss its prey, goingforwards and backwards, answering to its helm, plunging when thecetacean dived into the deep waters, coming up with it when it returnedto the surface, striking it front or sideways, cutting or tearing inall directions and at any pace, piercing it with its terrible spur.What carnage!  What a noise on the surface of the waves!  What sharphissing, and what snorting peculiar to these enraged animals!  In themidst of these waters, generally so peaceful, their tails made perfectbillows.  For one hour this wholesale massacre continued, from whichthe cachalots could not escape.  Several times ten or twelve unitedtried to crush the Nautilus by their weight.  From the window we couldsee their enormous mouths, studded with tusks, and their formidableeyes.  Ned Land could not contain himself; he threatened and swore atthem.  We could feel them clinging to our vessel like dogs worrying awild boar in a copse.  But the Nautilus, working its screw, carriedthem here and there, or to the upper levels of the ocean, withoutcaring for their enormous weight, nor the powerful strain on thevessel.  At length the mass of cachalots broke up, the waves becamequiet, and I felt that we were rising to the surface.  The panelopened, and we hurried on to the platform.  The sea was covered withmutilated bodies.  A formidable explosion could not have divided andtorn this fleshy mass with more violence.  We were floating amidgigantic bodies, bluish on the back and white underneath, covered withenormous protuberances.  Some terrified cachalots were flying towardsthe horizon.  The waves were dyed red for several miles, and theNautilus floated in a sea of blood:  Captain Nemo joined us.
"Well, Master Land?" said he.
"Well, sir," replied the Canadian, whose enthusiasm had somewhatcalmed; "it is a terrible spectacle, certainly.  But I am not abutcher.  I am a hunter, and I call this a butchery."
"It is a massacre of mischievous creatures," replied the Captain; "andthe Nautilus is not a butcher's knife."
"I like my harpoon better," said the Canadian.
"Every one to his own," answered the Captain, looking fixedly at NedLand.
I feared he would commit some act of violence, which would end in sadconsequences.  But his anger was turned by the sight of a whale whichthe Nautilus had just come up with.  The creature had not quite escapedfrom the cachalot's teeth.  I recognised the southern whale by its flathead, which is entirely black.  Anatomically, it is distinguished fromthe white whale and the North Cape whale by the seven cervicalvertebrae, and it has two more ribs than its congeners.  Theunfortunate cetacean was lying on its side, riddled with holes from thebites, and quite dead.  From its mutilated fin still hung a young whalewhich it could not save from the massacre.  Its open mouth let thewater flow in and out, murmuring like the waves breaking on the shore.Captain Nemo steered close to the corpse of the creature.  Two of hismen mounted its side, and I saw, not without surprise, that they weredrawing from its breasts all the milk which they contained, that is tosay, about two or three tons.  The Captain offered me a cup of themilk, which was still warm.  I could not help showing my repugnance tothe drink; but he assured me that it was excellent, and not to bedistinguished from cow's milk.  I tasted it, and was of his opinion.It was a useful reserve to us, for in the shape of salt butter orcheese it would form an agreeable variety from our ordinary food.  Fromthat day I noticed with uneasiness that Ned Land's ill-will towardsCaptain Nemo increased, and I resolved to watch the Canadian's gesturesclosely.


CHAPTER XIII
THE ICEBERG
The Nautilus was steadily pursuing its southerly course, following thefiftieth meridian with considerable speed.  Did he wish to reach thepole?  I did not think so, for every attempt to reach that point hadhitherto failed.  Again, the season was far advanced, for in theAntarctic regions the 13th of March corresponds with the 13th ofSeptember of northern regions, which begin at the equinoctial season.On the 14th of March I saw floating ice in latitude 55°, merelypale bits of debris from twenty to twenty-five feet long, forming banksover which the sea curled.  The Nautilus remained on the surface of theocean.  Ned Land, who had fished in the Arctic Seas, was familiar withits icebergs; but Conseil and I admired them for the first time.  Inthe atmosphere towards the southern horizon stretched a white dazzlingband.  English whalers have given it the name of "ice blink."  Howeverthick the clouds may be, it is always visible, and announces thepresence of an ice pack or bank.  Accordingly, larger blocks soonappeared, whose brilliancy changed with the caprices of the fog.  Someof these masses showed green veins, as if long undulating lines hadbeen traced with sulphate of copper; others resembled enormousamethysts with the light shining through them.  Some reflected thelight of day upon a thousand crystal facets.  Others shaded with vividcalcareous reflections resembled a perfect town of marble.  The more weneared the south the more these floating islands increased both innumber and importance.
At 60° lat. every pass had disappeared.  But, seeking carefully,Captain Nemo soon found a narrow opening, through which he boldlyslipped, knowing, however, that it would close behind him.  Thus,guided by this clever hand, the Nautilus passed through all the icewith a precision which quite charmed Conseil; icebergs or mountains,ice-fields or smooth plains, seeming to have no limits, drift-ice orfloating ice-packs, plains broken up, called palchs when they arecircular, and streams when they are made up of long strips.  Thetemperature was very low; the thermometer exposed to the air marked 2deg. or 3° below zero, but we were warmly clad with fur, at theexpense of the sea-bear and seal.  The interior of the Nautilus, warmedregularly by its electric apparatus, defied the most intense cold.Besides, it would only have been necessary to go some yards beneath thewaves to find a more bearable temperature.  Two months earlier weshould have had perpetual daylight in these latitudes; but already wehad had three or four hours of night, and by and by there would be sixmonths of darkness in these circumpolar regions.  On the 15th of Marchwe were in the latitude of New Shetland and South Orkney.  The Captaintold me that formerly numerous tribes of seals inhabited them; but thatEnglish and American whalers, in their rage for destruction, massacredboth old and young; thus, where there was once life and animation, theyhad left silence and death.
About eight o'clock on the morning of the 16th of March the Nautilus,following the fifty-fifth meridian, cut the Antarctic polar circle.Ice surrounded us on all sides, and closed the horizon.  But CaptainNemo went from one opening to another, still going higher.  I cannotexpress my astonishment at the beauties of these new regions.  The icetook most surprising forms.  Here the grouping formed an oriental town,with innumerable mosques and minarets; there a fallen city thrown tothe earth, as it were, by some convulsion of nature.  The whole aspectwas constantly changed by the oblique rays of the sun, or lost in thegreyish fog amidst hurricanes of snow.  Detonations and falls wereheard on all sides, great overthrows of icebergs, which altered thewhole landscape like a diorama.  Often seeing no exit, I thought wewere definitely prisoners; but, instinct guiding him at the slightestindication, Captain Nemo would discover a new pass.  He was nevermistaken when he saw the thin threads of bluish water trickling alongthe ice-fields; and I had no doubt that he had already ventured intothe midst of these Antarctic seas before.  On the 16th of March,however, the ice-fields absolutely blocked our road.  It was not theiceberg itself, as yet, but vast fields cemented by the cold.  But thisobstacle could not stop Captain Nemo: he hurled himself against it withfrightful violence.  The Nautilus entered the brittle mass like awedge, and split it with frightful crackings.  It was the battering ramof the ancients hurled by infinite strength.  The ice, thrown high inthe air, fell like hail around us.  By its own power of impulsion ourapparatus made a canal for itself; some times carried away by its ownimpetus, it lodged on the ice-field, crushing it with its weight, andsometimes buried beneath it, dividing it by a simple pitching movement,producing large rents in it.  Violent gales assailed us at this time,accompanied by thick fogs, through which, from one end of the platformto the other, we could see nothing.  The wind blew sharply from allparts of the compass, and the snow lay in such hard heaps that we hadto break it with blows of a pickaxe.  The temperature was always at 5deg. below zero; every outward part of the Nautilus was covered withice.  A rigged vessel would have been entangled in the blocked upgorges.  A vessel without sails, with electricity for its motive power,and wanting no coal, could alone brave such high latitudes.  At length,on the 18th of March, after many useless assaults, the Nautilus waspositively blocked.  It was no longer either streams, packs, orice-fields, but an interminable and immovable barrier, formed bymountains soldered together.
"An iceberg!" said the Canadian to me.
I knew that to Ned Land, as well as to all other navigators who hadpreceded us, this was an inevitable obstacle.  The sun appearing for aninstant at noon, Captain Nemo took an observation as near as possible,which gave our situation at 51° 30' long. and 67° 39' of S.lat.  We had advanced one degree more in this Antarctic region.  Of theliquid surface of the sea there was no longer a glimpse.  Under thespur of the Nautilus lay stretched a vast plain, entangled withconfused blocks.  Here and there sharp points and slender needlesrising to a height of 200 feet; further on a steep shore, hewn as itwere with an axe and clothed with greyish tints; huge mirrors,reflecting a few rays of sunshine, half drowned in the fog.  And overthis desolate face of nature a stern silence reigned, scarcely brokenby the flapping of the wings of petrels and puffins.  Everything wasfrozen--even the noise.  The Nautilus was then obliged to stop in itsadventurous course amid these fields of ice.  In spite of our efforts,in spite of the powerful means employed to break up the ice, theNautilus remained immovable.  Generally, when we can proceed nofurther, we have return still open to us; but here return was asimpossible as advance, for every pass had closed behind us; and for thefew moments when we were stationary, we were likely to be entirelyblocked, which did indeed happen about two o'clock in the afternoon,the fresh ice forming around its sides with astonishing rapidity.  Iwas obliged to admit that Captain Nemo was more than imprudent.  I wason the platform at that moment.  The Captain had been observing oursituation for some time past, when he said to me:
"Well, sir, what do you think of this?"
"I think that we are caught, Captain."
"So, M. Aronnax, you really think that the Nautilus cannot disengageitself?"
"With difficulty, Captain; for the season is already too far advancedfor you to reckon on the breaking of the ice."
"Ah! sir," said Captain Nemo, in an ironical tone, "you will always bethe same.  You see nothing but difficulties and obstacles.  I affirmthat not only can the Nautilus disengage itself, but also that it cango further still."
"Further to the South?"  I asked, looking at the Captain.
"Yes, sir; it shall go to the pole."
"To the pole!"  I exclaimed, unable to repress a gesture of incredulity.
"Yes," replied the Captain, coldly, "to the Antarctic pole--to thatunknown point from whence springs every meridian of the globe.  Youknow whether I can do as I please with the Nautilus!"
Yes, I knew that.  I knew that this man was bold, even to rashness.But to conquer those obstacles which bristled round the South Pole,rendering it more inaccessible than the North, which had not yet beenreached by the boldest navigators--was it not a mad enterprise, onewhich only a maniac would have conceived?  It then came into my head toask Captain Nemo if he had ever discovered that pole which had neveryet been trodden by a human creature?
"No, sir," he replied; "but we will discover it together.  Where othershave failed, I will not fail.  I have never yet led my Nautilus so farinto southern seas; but, I repeat, it shall go further yet."
"I can well believe you, Captain," said I, in a slightly ironical tone."I believe you!  Let us go ahead!  There are no obstacles for us!  Letus smash this iceberg!  Let us blow it up; and, if it resists, let usgive the Nautilus wings to fly over it!"
"Over it, sir!" said Captain Nemo, quietly; "no, not over it, but underit!"
"Under it!"  I exclaimed, a sudden idea of the Captain's projectsflashing upon my mind.  I understood; the wonderful qualities of theNautilus were going to serve us in this superhuman enterprise.
"I see we are beginning to understand one another, sir," said theCaptain, half smiling.  "You begin to see the possibility--I should saythe success--of this attempt.  That which is impossible for an ordinaryvessel is easy to the Nautilus.  If a continent lies before the pole,it must stop before the continent; but if, on the contrary, the pole iswashed by open sea, it will go even to the pole."
"Certainly," said I, carried away by the Captain's reasoning; "if thesurface of the sea is solidified by the ice, the lower depths are freeby the Providential law which has placed the maximum of density of thewaters of the ocean one degree higher than freezing-point; and, if I amnot mistaken, the portion of this iceberg which is above the water isas one to four to that which is below."
"Very nearly, sir; for one foot of iceberg above the sea there arethree below it.  If these ice mountains are not more than 300 feetabove the surface, they are not more than 900 beneath.  And what are900 feet to the Nautilus?"
"Nothing, sir."
"It could even seek at greater depths that uniform temperature ofsea-water, and there brave with impunity the thirty or forty degrees ofsurface cold."
"Just so, sir--just so," I replied, getting animated.
"The only difficulty," continued Captain Nemo, "is that of remainingseveral days without renewing our provision of air."
"Is that all?  The Nautilus has vast reservoirs; we can fill them, andthey will supply us with all the oxygen we want."
"Well thought of, M. Aronnax," replied the Captain, smiling.  "But, notwishing you to accuse me of rashness, I will first give you all myobjections."
"Have you any more to make?"
"Only one.  It is possible, if the sea exists at the South Pole, thatit may be covered; and, consequently, we shall be unable to come to thesurface."
"Good, sir! but do you forget that the Nautilus is armed with apowerful spur, and could we not send it diagonally against these fieldsof ice, which would open at the shocks."
"Ah! sir, you are full of ideas to-day."
"Besides, Captain," I added, enthusiastically, "why should we not findthe sea open at the South Pole as well as at the North?  The frozenpoles of the earth do not coincide, either in the southern or in thenorthern regions; and, until it is proved to the contrary, we maysuppose either a continent or an ocean free from ice at these twopoints of the globe."
"I think so too, M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo.  "I only wish youto observe that, after having made so many objections to my project,you are now crushing me with arguments in its favour!"
The preparations for this audacious attempt now began.  The powerfulpumps of the Nautilus were working air into the reservoirs and storingit at high pressure.  About four o'clock, Captain Nemo announced theclosing of the panels on the platform.  I threw one last look at themassive iceberg which we were going to cross.  The weather was clear,the atmosphere pure enough, the cold very great, being 12° belowzero; but, the wind having gone down, this temperature was not sounbearable.  About ten men mounted the sides of the Nautilus, armedwith pickaxes to break the ice around the vessel, which was soon free.The operation was quickly performed, for the fresh ice was still verythin.  We all went below.  The usual reservoirs were filled with thenewly-liberated water, and the Nautilus soon descended.  I had taken myplace with Conseil in the saloon; through the open window we could seethe lower beds of the Southern Ocean.  The thermometer went up, theneedle of the compass deviated on the dial.  At about 900 feet, asCaptain Nemo had foreseen, we were floating beneath the undulatingbottom of the iceberg.  But the Nautilus went lower still--it went tothe depth of four hundred fathoms.  The temperature of the water at thesurface showed twelve degrees, it was now only ten; we had gained two.I need not say the temperature of the Nautilus was raised by itsheating apparatus to a much higher degree; every manoeuvre wasaccomplished with wonderful precision.
"We shall pass it, if you please, sir," said Conseil.
"I believe we shall," I said, in a tone of firm conviction.
In this open sea, the Nautilus had taken its course direct to the pole,without leaving the fifty-second meridian.  From 67° 30' to 90deg., twenty-two degrees and a half of latitude remained to travel;that is, about five hundred leagues.  The Nautilus kept up a mean speedof twenty-six miles an hour--the speed of an express train.  If thatwas kept up, in forty hours we should reach the pole.
For a part of the night the novelty of the situation kept us at thewindow.  The sea was lit with the electric lantern; but it wasdeserted; fishes did not sojourn in these imprisoned waters; they onlyfound there a passage to take them from the Antarctic Ocean to the openpolar sea.  Our pace was rapid; we could feel it by the quivering ofthe long steel body.  About two in the morning I took some hours'repose, and Conseil did the same.  In crossing the waist I did not meetCaptain Nemo: I supposed him to be in the pilot's cage.  The nextmorning, the 19th of March, I took my post once more in the saloon.The electric log told me that the speed of the Nautilus had beenslackened.  It was then going towards the surface; but prudentlyemptying its reservoirs very slowly.  My heart beat fast.  Were wegoing to emerge and regain the open polar atmosphere?  No!  A shocktold me that the Nautilus had struck the bottom of the iceberg, stillvery thick, judging from the deadened sound.  We had in deed "struck,"to use a sea expression, but in an inverse sense, and at a thousandfeet deep.  This would give three thousand feet of ice above us; onethousand being above the water-mark. The iceberg was then higher thanat its borders--not a very reassuring fact.  Several times that day theNautilus tried again, and every time it struck the wall which lay likea ceiling above it.  Sometimes it met with but 900 yards, only 200 ofwhich rose above the surface.  It was twice the height it was when theNautilus had gone under the waves.  I carefully noted the differentdepths, and thus obtained a submarine profile of the chain as it wasdeveloped under the water.  That night no change had taken place in oursituation.  Still ice between four and five hundred yards in depth!  Itwas evidently diminishing, but, still, what a thickness between us andthe surface of the ocean!  It was then eight.  According to the dailycustom on board the Nautilus, its air should have been renewed fourhours ago; but I did not suffer much, although Captain Nemo had not yetmade any demand upon his reserve of oxygen.  My sleep was painful thatnight; hope and fear besieged me by turns: I rose several times.  Thegroping of the Nautilus continued.  About three in the morning, Inoticed that the lower surface of the iceberg was only about fifty feetdeep.  One hundred and fifty feet now separated us from the surface ofthe waters.  The iceberg was by degrees becoming an ice-field, themountain a plain.  My eyes never left the manometer.  We were stillrising diagonally to the surface, which sparkled under the electricrays.  The iceberg was stretching both above and beneath intolengthening slopes; mile after mile it was getting thinner.  At length,at six in the morning of that memorable day, the 19th of March, thedoor of the saloon opened, and Captain Nemo appeared.
"The sea is open!!" was all he said.


CHAPTER XIV
THE SOUTH POLE
I rushed on to the platform.  Yes! the open sea, with but a fewscattered pieces of ice and moving icebergs--a long stretch of sea; aworld of birds in the air, and myriads of fishes under those waters,which varied from intense blue to olive green, according to the bottom.The thermometer marked 3° C. above zero.  It was comparativelyspring, shut up as we were behind this iceberg, whose lengthened masswas dimly seen on our northern horizon.
"Are we at the pole?"  I asked the Captain, with a beating heart.
"I do not know," he replied.  "At noon I will take our bearings."
"But will the sun show himself through this fog?" said I, looking atthe leaden sky.
"However little it shows, it will be enough," replied the Captain.
About ten miles south a solitary island rose to a height of one hundredand four yards.  We made for it, but carefully, for the sea might bestrewn with banks.  One hour afterwards we had reached it, two hourslater we had made the round of it.  It measured four or five miles incircumference.  A narrow canal separated it from a considerable stretchof land, perhaps a continent, for we could not see its limits.  Theexistence of this land seemed to give some colour to Maury's theory.The ingenious American has remarked that, between the South Pole andthe sixtieth parallel, the sea is covered with floating ice of enormoussize, which is never met with in the North Atlantic.  From this fact hehas drawn the conclusion that the Antarctic Circle enclosesconsiderable continents, as icebergs cannot form in open sea, but onlyon the coasts.  According to these calculations, the mass of icesurrounding the southern pole forms a vast cap, the circumference ofwhich must be, at least, 2,500 miles.  But the Nautilus, for fear ofrunning aground, had stopped about three cable-lengths from a strandover which reared a superb heap of rocks.  The boat was launched; theCaptain, two of his men, bearing instruments, Conseil, and myself werein it.  It was ten in the morning.  I had not seen Ned Land.  Doubtlessthe Canadian did not wish to admit the presence of the South Pole.  Afew strokes of the oar brought us to the sand, where we ran ashore.Conseil was going to jump on to the land, when I held him back.
"Sir," said I to Captain Nemo, "to you belongs the honour of firstsetting foot on this land."
"Yes, sir," said the Captain, "and if I do not hesitate to tread thisSouth Pole, it is because, up to this time, no human being has left atrace there."
Saying this, he jumped lightly on to the sand.  His heart beat withemotion.  He climbed a rock, sloping to a little promontory, and there,with his arms crossed, mute and motionless, and with an eager look, heseemed to take possession of these southern regions.  After fiveminutes passed in this ecstasy, he turned to us.
"When you like, sir."
I landed, followed by Conseil, leaving the two men in the boat.  For along way the soil was composed of a reddish sandy stone, something likecrushed brick, scoriae, streams of lava, and pumice-stones. One couldnot mistake its volcanic origin.  In some parts, slight curls of smokeemitted a sulphurous smell, proving that the internal fires had lostnothing of their expansive powers, though, having climbed a highacclivity, I could see no volcano for a radius of several miles.  Weknow that in those Antarctic countries, James Ross found two craters,the Erebus and Terror, in full activity, on the 167th meridian,latitude 77° 32'. The vegetation of this desolate continent seemedto me much restricted.  Some lichens lay upon the black rocks; somemicroscopic plants, rudimentary diatomas, a kind of cells placedbetween two quartz shells; long purple and scarlet weed, supported onlittle swimming bladders, which the breaking of the waves brought tothe shore.  These constituted the meagre flora of this region.  Theshore was strewn with molluscs, little mussels, and limpets.  I alsosaw myriads of northern clios, one-and-a-quarter inches long, of whicha whale would swallow a whole world at a mouthful; and some perfectsea-butterflies, animating the waters on the skirts of the shore.
There appeared on the high bottoms some coral shrubs, of the kindwhich, according to James Ross, live in the Antarctic seas to the depthof more than 1,000 yards.  Then there were little kingfishers andstarfish studding the soil.  But where life abounded most was in theair.  There thousands of birds fluttered and flew of all kinds,deafening us with their cries; others crowded the rock, looking at usas we passed by without fear, and pressing familiarly close by ourfeet.  There were penguins, so agile in the water, heavy and awkward asthey are on the ground; they were uttering harsh cries, a largeassembly, sober in gesture, but extravagant in clamour.  Albatrossespassed in the air, the expanse of their wings being at least four yardsand a half, and justly called the vultures of the ocean; some giganticpetrels, and some damiers, a kind of small duck, the underpart of whosebody is black and white; then there were a whole series of petrels,some whitish, with brown-bordered wings, others blue, peculiar to theAntarctic seas, and so oily, as I told Conseil, that the inhabitants ofthe Ferroe Islands had nothing to do before lighting them but to put awick in.
"A little more," said Conseil, "and they would be perfect lamps!  Afterthat, we cannot expect Nature to have previously furnished them withwicks!"
About half a mile farther on the soil was riddled with ruffs' nests, asort of laying-ground, out of which many birds were issuing.  CaptainNemo had some hundreds hunted.  They uttered a cry like the braying ofan ass, were about the size of a goose, slate-colour on the body, whitebeneath, with a yellow line round their throats; they allowedthemselves to be killed with a stone, never trying to escape.  But thefog did not lift, and at eleven the sun had not yet shown itself.  Itsabsence made me uneasy.  Without it no observations were possible.How, then, could we decide whether we had reached the pole?  When Irejoined Captain Nemo, I found him leaning on a piece of rock, silentlywatching the sky.  He seemed impatient and vexed.  But what was to bedone?  This rash and powerful man could not command the sun as he didthe sea.  Noon arrived without the orb of day showing itself for aninstant.  We could not even tell its position behind the curtain offog; and soon the fog turned to snow.
"Till to-morrow," said the Captain, quietly, and we returned to theNautilus amid these atmospheric disturbances.
The tempest of snow continued till the next day.  It was impossible toremain on the platform.  From the saloon, where I was taking notes ofincidents happening during this excursion to the polar continent, Icould hear the cries of petrels and albatrosses sporting in the midstof this violent storm.  The Nautilus did not remain motionless, butskirted the coast, advancing ten miles more to the south in thehalf-light left by the sun as it skirted the edge of the horizon.  Thenext day, the 20th of March, the snow had ceased.  The cold was alittle greater, the thermometer showing 2° below zero.  The fogwas rising, and I hoped that that day our observations might be taken.Captain Nemo not having yet appeared, the boat took Conseil and myselfto land.  The soil was still of the same volcanic nature; everywherewere traces of lava, scoriae, and basalt; but the crater which hadvomited them I could not see.  Here, as lower down, this continent wasalive with myriads of birds.  But their rule was now divided with largetroops of sea-mammals, looking at us with their soft eyes.  There wereseveral kinds of seals, some stretched on the earth, some on flakes ofice, many going in and out of the sea.  They did not flee at ourapproach, never having had anything to do with man; and I reckoned thatthere were provisions there for hundreds of vessels.
"Sir," said Conseil, "will you tell me the names of these creatures?"
"They are seals and morses."
It was now eight in the morning.  Four hours remained to us before thesun could be observed with advantage.  I directed our steps towards avast bay cut in the steep granite shore.  There, I can aver that earthand ice were lost to sight by the numbers of sea-mammals covering them,and I involuntarily sought for old Proteus, the mythological shepherdwho watched these immense flocks of Neptune.  There were more sealsthan anything else, forming distinct groups, male and female, thefather watching over his family, the mother suckling her little ones,some already strong enough to go a few steps.  When they wished tochange their place, they took little jumps, made by the contraction oftheir bodies, and helped awkwardly enough by their imperfect fin,which, as with the lamantin, their cousins, forms a perfect forearm.  Ishould say that, in the water, which is their element--the spine ofthese creatures is flexible; with smooth and close skin and webbedfeet--they swim admirably.  In resting on the earth they take the mostgraceful attitudes.  Thus the ancients, observing their soft andexpressive looks, which cannot be surpassed by the most beautiful looka woman can give, their clear voluptuous eyes, their charmingpositions, and the poetry of their manners, metamorphosed them, themale into a triton and the female into a mermaid.  I made Conseilnotice the considerable development of the lobes of the brain in theseinteresting cetaceans.  No mammal, except man, has such a quantity ofbrain matter; they are also capable of receiving a certain amount ofeducation, are easily domesticated, and I think, with othernaturalists, that if properly taught they would be of great service asfishing-dogs.  The greater part of them slept on the rocks or on thesand.  Amongst these seals, properly so called, which have no externalears (in which they differ from the otter, whose ears are prominent), Inoticed several varieties of seals about three yards long, with a whitecoat, bulldog heads, armed with teeth in both jaws, four incisors atthe top and four at the bottom, and two large canine teeth in the shapeof a fleur-de-lis. Amongst them glided sea-elephants, a kind of seal,with short, flexible trunks.  The giants of this species measuredtwenty feet round and ten yards and a half in length; but they did notmove as we approached.
"These creatures are not dangerous?" asked Conseil.
"No; not unless you attack them.  When they have to defend their youngtheir rage is terrible, and it is not uncommon for them to break thefishing-boats to pieces."
"They are quite right," said Conseil.
"I do not say they are not."
Two miles farther on we were stopped by the promontory which sheltersthe bay from the southerly winds.  Beyond it we heard loud bellowingssuch as a troop of ruminants would produce.
"Good!" said Conseil; "a concert of bulls!"
"No; a concert of morses."
"They are fighting!"
"They are either fighting or playing."
We now began to climb the blackish rocks, amid unforeseen stumbles, andover stones which the ice made slippery.  More than once I rolled overat the expense of my loins.  Conseil, more prudent or more steady, didnot stumble, and helped me up, saying:
"If, sir, you would have the kindness to take wider steps, you wouldpreserve your equilibrium better."
Arrived at the upper ridge of the promontory, I saw a vast white plaincovered with morses.  They were playing amongst themselves, and what weheard were bellowings of pleasure, not of anger.
As I passed these curious animals I could examine them leisurely, forthey did not move.  Their skins were thick and rugged, of a yellowishtint, approaching to red; their hair was short and scant.  Some of themwere four yards and a quarter long.  Quieter and less timid than theircousins of the north, they did not, like them, place sentinels roundthe outskirts of their encampment.  After examining this city ofmorses, I began to think of returning.  It was eleven o'clock, and, ifCaptain Nemo found the conditions favourable for observations, I wishedto be present at the operation.  We followed a narrow pathway runningalong the summit of the steep shore.  At half-past eleven we hadreached the place where we landed.  The boat had run aground, bringingthe Captain.  I saw him standing on a block of basalt, his instrumentsnear him, his eyes fixed on the northern horizon, near which the sunwas then describing a lengthened curve.  I took my place beside him,and waited without speaking.  Noon arrived, and, as before, the sun didnot appear.  It was a fatality.  Observations were still wanting.  Ifnot accomplished to-morrow, we must give up all idea of taking any.  Wewere indeed exactly at the 20th of March.  To-morrow, the 21st, wouldbe the equinox; the sun would disappear behind the horizon for sixmonths, and with its disappearance the long polar night would begin.Since the September equinox it had emerged from the northern horizon,rising by lengthened spirals up to the 21st of December.  At thisperiod, the summer solstice of the northern regions, it had begun todescend; and to-morrow was to shed its last rays upon them.  Icommunicated my fears and observations to Captain Nemo.
"You are right, M. Aronnax," said he; "if to-morrow I cannot take thealtitude of the sun, I shall not be able to do it for six months.  Butprecisely because chance has led me into these seas on the 21st ofMarch, my bearings will be easy to take, if at twelve we can see thesun."
"Why, Captain?"
"Because then the orb of day described such lengthened curves that itis difficult to measure exactly its height above the horizon, and graveerrors may be made with instruments."
"What will you do then?"
"I shall only use my chronometer," replied Captain Nemo.  "Ifto-morrow, the 21st of March, the disc of the sun, allowing forrefraction, is exactly cut by the northern horizon, it will show that Iam at the South Pole."
"Just so," said I. "But this statement is not mathematically correct,because the equinox does not necessarily begin at noon."
"Very likely, sir; but the error will not be a hundred yards and we donot want more.  Till to-morrow, then!"
Captain Nemo returned on board.  Conseil and I remained to survey theshore, observing and studying until five o'clock. Then I went to bed,not, however, without invoking, like the Indian, the favour of theradiant orb.  The next day, the 21st of March, at five in the morning,I mounted the platform.  I found Captain Nemo there.
"The weather is lightening a little," said he.  "I have some hope.After breakfast we will go on shore and choose a post for observation."
That point settled, I sought Ned Land.  I wanted to take him with me.But the obstinate Canadian refused, and I saw that his taciturnity andhis bad humour grew day by day.  After all, I was not sorry for hisobstinacy under the circumstances.  Indeed, there were too many sealson shore, and we ought not to lay such temptation in this unreflectingfisherman's way.  Breakfast over, we went on shore.  The Nautilus hadgone some miles further up in the night.  It was a whole league fromthe coast, above which reared a sharp peak about five hundred yardshigh.  The boat took with me Captain Nemo, two men of the crew, and theinstruments, which consisted of a chronometer, a telescope, and abarometer.  While crossing, I saw numerous whales belonging to thethree kinds peculiar to the southern seas; the whale, or the English"right whale," which has no dorsal fin; the "humpback," with reevedchest and large, whitish fins, which, in spite of its name, do not formwings; and the fin-back, of a yellowish brown, the liveliest of all thecetacea.  This powerful creature is heard a long way off when he throwsto a great height columns of air and vapour, which look like whirlwindsof smoke.  These different mammals were disporting themselves in troopsin the quiet waters; and I could see that this basin of the AntarcticPole serves as a place of refuge to the cetacea too closely tracked bythe hunters.  I also noticed large medusae floating between the reeds.
At nine we landed; the sky was brightening, the clouds were flying tothe south, and the fog seemed to be leaving the cold surface of thewaters.  Captain Nemo went towards the peak, which he doubtless meantto be his observatory.  It was a painful ascent over the sharp lava andthe pumice-stones, in an atmosphere often impregnated with a sulphuroussmell from the smoking cracks.  For a man unaccustomed to walk on land,the Captain climbed the steep slopes with an agility I never sawequalled and which a hunter would have envied.  We were two hoursgetting to the summit of this peak, which was half porphyry and halfbasalt.  From thence we looked upon a vast sea which, towards thenorth, distinctly traced its boundary line upon the sky.  At our feetlay fields of dazzling whiteness.  Over our heads a pale azure, freefrom fog.  To the north the disc of the sun seemed like a ball of fire,already horned by the cutting of the horizon.  From the bosom of thewater rose sheaves of liquid jets by hundreds.  In the distance lay theNautilus like a cetacean asleep on the water.  Behind us, to the southand east, an immense country and a chaotic heap of rocks and ice, thelimits of which were not visible.  On arriving at the summit CaptainNemo carefully took the mean height of the barometer, for he would haveto consider that in taking his observations.  At a quarter to twelvethe sun, then seen only by refraction, looked like a golden discshedding its last rays upon this deserted continent and seas whichnever man had yet ploughed.  Captain Nemo, furnished with a lenticularglass which, by means of a mirror, corrected the refraction, watchedthe orb sinking below the horizon by degrees, following a lengtheneddiagonal.  I held the chronometer.  My heart beat fast.  If thedisappearance of the half-disc of the sun coincided with twelve o'clockon the chronometer, we were at the pole itself.
"Twelve!"  I exclaimed.
"The South Pole!" replied Captain Nemo, in a grave voice, handing methe glass, which showed the orb cut in exactly equal parts by thehorizon.
I looked at the last rays crowning the peak, and the shadows mountingby degrees up its slopes.  At that moment Captain Nemo, resting withhis hand on my shoulder, said:
"I, Captain Nemo, on this 21st day of March, 1868, have reached theSouth Pole on the ninetieth degree; and I take possession of this partof the globe, equal to one-sixth of the known continents."
"In whose name, Captain?"
"In my own, sir!"
Saying which, Captain Nemo unfurled a black banner, bearing an "N" ingold quartered on its bunting.  Then, turning towards the orb of day,whose last rays lapped the horizon of the sea, he exclaimed:
"Adieu, sun!  Disappear, thou radiant orb! rest beneath this open sea,and let a night of six months spread its shadows over my new domains!"


CHAPTER XV
ACCIDENT OR INCIDENT?
The next day, the 22nd of March, at six in the morning, preparationsfor departure were begun.  The last gleams of twilight were meltinginto night.  The cold was great, the constellations shone withwonderful intensity.  In the zenith glittered that wondrous SouthernCross--the polar bear of Antarctic regions.  The thermometer showed 120below zero, and when the wind freshened it was most biting.  Flakes ofice increased on the open water.  The sea seemed everywhere alike.Numerous blackish patches spread on the surface, showing the formationof fresh ice.  Evidently the southern basin, frozen during the sixwinter months, was absolutely inaccessible.  What became of the whalesin that time?  Doubtless they went beneath the icebergs, seeking morepracticable seas.  As to the seals and morses, accustomed to live in ahard climate, they remained on these icy shores.  These creatures havethe instinct to break holes in the ice-field and to keep them open.  Tothese holes they come for breath; when the birds, driven away by thecold, have emigrated to the north, these sea mammals remain solemasters of the polar continent.  But the reservoirs were filling withwater, and the Nautilus was slowly descending.  At 1,000 feet deep itstopped; its screw beat the waves, and it advanced straight towards thenorth at a speed of fifteen miles an hour.  Towards night it wasalready floating under the immense body of the iceberg.  At three inthe morning I was awakened by a violent shock.  I sat up in my bed andlistened in the darkness, when I was thrown into the middle of theroom.  The Nautilus, after having struck, had rebounded violently.  Igroped along the partition, and by the staircase to the saloon, whichwas lit by the luminous ceiling.  The furniture was upset.  Fortunatelythe windows were firmly set, and had held fast.  The pictures on thestarboard side, from being no longer vertical, were clinging to thepaper, whilst those of the port side were hanging at least a foot fromthe wall.  The Nautilus was lying on its starboard side perfectlymotionless.  I heard footsteps, and a confusion of voices; but CaptainNemo did not appear.  As I was leaving the saloon, Ned Land and Conseilentered.
"What is the matter?" said I, at once.
"I came to ask you, sir," replied Conseil.
"Confound it!" exclaimed the Canadian, "I know well enough!  TheNautilus has struck; and, judging by the way she lies, I do not thinkshe will right herself as she did the first time in Torres Straits."
"But," I asked, "has she at least come to the surface of the sea?"
"We do not know," said Conseil.
"It is easy to decide," I answered.  I consulted the manometer.  To mygreat surprise, it showed a depth of more than 180 fathoms.  "What doesthat mean?"  I exclaimed.
"We must ask Captain Nemo," said Conseil.
"But where shall we find him?" said Ned Land.
"Follow me," said I, to my companions.
We left the saloon.  There was no one in the library.  At the centrestaircase, by the berths of the ship's crew, there was no one.  Ithought that Captain Nemo must be in the pilot's cage.  It was best towait.  We all returned to the saloon.  For twenty minutes we remainedthus, trying to hear the slightest noise which might be made on boardthe Nautilus, when Captain Nemo entered.  He seemed not to see us; hisface, generally so impassive, showed signs of uneasiness.  He watchedthe compass silently, then the manometer; and, going to theplanisphere, placed his finger on a spot representing the southernseas.  I would not interrupt him; but, some minutes later, when heturned towards me, I said, using one of his own expressions in theTorres Straits:
"An incident, Captain?"
"No, sir; an accident this time."
"Serious?"
"Perhaps."
"Is the danger immediate?"
"No."
"The Nautilus has stranded?"
"Yes."
"And this has happened--how?"
"From a caprice of nature, not from the ignorance of man.  Not amistake has been made in the working.  But we cannot preventequilibrium from producing its effects.  We may brave human laws, butwe cannot resist natural ones."
Captain Nemo had chosen a strange moment for uttering thisphilosophical reflection.  On the whole, his answer helped me little.
"May I ask, sir, the cause of this accident?"
"An enormous block of ice, a whole mountain, has turned over," hereplied.  "When icebergs are undermined at their base by warmer wateror reiterated shocks their centre of gravity rises, and the whole thingturns over.  This is what has happened; one of these blocks, as itfell, struck the Nautilus, then, gliding under its hull, raised it withirresistible force, bringing it into beds which are not so thick, whereit is lying on its side."
"But can we not get the Nautilus off by emptying its reservoirs, thatit might regain its equilibrium?"
"That, sir, is being done at this moment.  You can hear the pumpworking.  Look at the needle of the manometer; it shows that theNautilus is rising, but the block of ice is floating with it; and,until some obstacle stops its ascending motion, our position cannot bealtered."
Indeed, the Nautilus still held the same position to starboard;doubtless it would right itself when the block stopped.  But at thismoment who knows if we may not be frightfully crushed between the twoglassy surfaces?  I reflected on all the consequences of our position.Captain Nemo never took his eyes off the manometer.  Since the fall ofthe iceberg, the Nautilus had risen about a hundred and fifty feet, butit still made the same angle with the perpendicular.  Suddenly a slightmovement was felt in the hold.  Evidently it was righting a little.Things hanging in the saloon were sensibly returning to their normalposition.  The partitions were nearing the upright.  No one spoke.With beating hearts we watched and felt the straightening.  The boardsbecame horizontal under our feet.  Ten minutes passed.
"At last we have righted!"  I exclaimed.
"Yes," said Captain Nemo, going to the door of the saloon.
"But are we floating?"  I asked.
"Certainly," he replied; "since the reservoirs are not empty; and, whenempty, the Nautilus must rise to the surface of the sea."
We were in open sea; but at a distance of about ten yards, on eitherside of the Nautilus, rose a dazzling wall of ice.  Above and beneaththe same wall.  Above, because the lower surface of the icebergstretched over us like an immense ceiling.  Beneath, because theoverturned block, having slid by degrees, had found a resting-place onthe lateral walls, which kept it in that position.  The Nautilus wasreally imprisoned in a perfect tunnel of ice more than twenty yards inbreadth, filled with quiet water.  It was easy to get out of it bygoing either forward or backward, and then make a free passage underthe iceberg, some hundreds of yards deeper.  The luminous ceiling hadbeen extinguished, but the saloon was still resplendent with intenselight.  It was the powerful reflection from the glass partition sentviolently back to the sheets of the lantern.  I cannot describe theeffect of the voltaic rays upon the great blocks so capriciously cut;upon every angle, every ridge, every facet was thrown a differentlight, according to the nature of the veins running through the ice; adazzling mine of gems, particularly of sapphires, their blue rayscrossing with the green of the emerald.  Here and there were opalshades of wonderful softness, running through bright spots likediamonds of fire, the brilliancy of which the eye could not bear.  Thepower of the lantern seemed increased a hundredfold, like a lampthrough the lenticular plates of a first-class lighthouse.
"How beautiful! how beautiful!" cried Conseil.
"Yes," I said, "it is a wonderful sight.  Is it not, Ned?"
"Yes, confound it!  Yes," answered Ned Land, "it is superb!  I am madat being obliged to admit it.  No one has ever seen anything like it;but the sight may cost us dear.  And, if I must say all, I think we areseeing here things which God never intended man to see."
Ned was right, it was too beautiful.  Suddenly a cry from Conseil mademe turn.
"What is it?"  I asked.
"Shut your eyes, sir!  Do not look, sir!"  Saying which, Conseilclapped his hands over his eyes.
"But what is the matter, my boy?"
"I am dazzled, blinded."
My eyes turned involuntarily towards the glass, but I could not standthe fire which seemed to devour them.  I understood what had happened.The Nautilus had put on full speed.  All the quiet lustre of theice-walls was at once changed into flashes of lightning.  The fire fromthese myriads of diamonds was blinding.  It required some time to calmour troubled looks.  At last the hands were taken down.
"Faith, I should never have believed it," said Conseil.
It was then five in the morning; and at that moment a shock was felt atthe bows of the Nautilus.  I knew that its spur had struck a block ofice.  It must have been a false manoeuvre, for this submarine tunnel,obstructed by blocks, was not very easy navigation.  I thought thatCaptain Nemo, by changing his course, would either turn these obstaclesor else follow the windings of the tunnel.  In any case, the roadbefore us could not be entirely blocked.  But, contrary to myexpectations, the Nautilus took a decided retrograde motion.
"We are going backwards?" said Conseil.
"Yes," I replied.  "This end of the tunnel can have no egress."
"And then?"
"Then," said I, "the working is easy.  We must go back again, and goout at the southern opening.  That is all."
In speaking thus, I wished to appear more confident than I really was.But the retrograde motion of the Nautilus was increasing; and,reversing the screw, it carried us at great speed.
"It will be a hindrance," said Ned.
"What does it matter, some hours more or less, provided we get out atlast?"
"Yes," repeated Ned Land, "provided we do get out at last!"
For a short time I walked from the saloon to the library.  Mycompanions were silent.  I soon threw myself on an ottoman, and took abook, which my eyes overran mechanically.  A quarter of an hour after,Conseil, approaching me, said, "Is what you are reading veryinteresting, sir?"
"Very interesting!"  I replied.
"I should think so, sir.  It is your own book you are reading."
"My book?"
And indeed I was holding in my hand the work on the Great SubmarineDepths.  I did not even dream of it.  I closed the book and returned tomy walk.  Ned and Conseil rose to go.
"Stay here, my friends," said I, detaining them.  "Let us remaintogether until we are out of this block."
"As you please, sir," Conseil replied.
Some hours passed.  I often looked at the instruments hanging from thepartition.  The manometer showed that the Nautilus kept at a constantdepth of more than three hundred yards; the compass still pointed tosouth; the log indicated a speed of twenty miles an hour, which, insuch a cramped space, was very great.  But Captain Nemo knew that hecould not hasten too much, and that minutes were worth ages to us.  Attwenty-five minutes past eight a second shock took place, this timefrom behind.  I turned pale.  My companions were close by my side.  Iseized Conseil's hand.  Our looks expressed our feelings better thanwords.  At this moment the Captain entered the saloon.  I went up tohim.
"Our course is barred southward?"  I asked.
"Yes, sir.  The iceberg has shifted and closed every outlet."
"We are blocked up then?"
"Yes."


CHAPTER XVI
WANT OF AIR
Thus around the Nautilus, above and below, was an impenetrable wall ofice.  We were prisoners to the iceberg.  I watched the Captain.  Hiscountenance had resumed its habitual imperturbability.
"Gentlemen," he said calmly, "there are two ways of dying in thecircumstances in which we are placed."  (This puzzling person had theair of a mathematical professor lecturing to his pupils.) "The first isto be crushed; the second is to die of suffocation.  I do not speak ofthe possibility of dying of hunger, for the supply of provisions in theNautilus will certainly last longer than we shall.  Let us, then,calculate our chances."
"As to suffocation, Captain," I replied, "that is not to be feared,because our reservoirs are full."
"Just so; but they will only yield two days' supply of air.  Now, forthirty-six hours we have been hidden under the water, and already theheavy atmosphere of the Nautilus requires renewal.  In forty-eighthours our reserve will be exhausted."
"Well, Captain, can we be delivered before forty-eight hours?"
"We will attempt it, at least, by piercing the wall that surrounds us."
"On which side?"
"Sound will tell us.  I am going to run the Nautilus aground on thelower bank, and my men will attack the iceberg on the side that isleast thick."
Captain Nemo went out.  Soon I discovered by a hissing noise that thewater was entering the reservoirs.  The Nautilus sank slowly, andrested on the ice at a depth of 350 yards, the depth at which the lowerbank was immersed.
"My friends," I said, "our situation is serious, but I rely on yourcourage and energy."
"Sir," replied the Canadian, "I am ready to do anything for the generalsafety."
"Good!  Ned," and I held out my hand to the Canadian.
"I will add," he continued, "that, being as handy with the pickaxe aswith the harpoon, if I can be useful to the Captain, he can command myservices."
"He will not refuse your help.  Come, Ned!"
I led him to the room where the crew of the Nautilus were putting ontheir cork-jackets. I told the Captain of Ned's proposal, which heaccepted.  The Canadian put on his sea-costume, and was ready as soonas his companions.  When Ned was dressed, I re-entered thedrawing-room, where the panes of glass were open, and, posted nearConseil, I examined the ambient beds that supported the Nautilus.  Someinstants after, we saw a dozen of the crew set foot on the bank of ice,and among them Ned Land, easily known by his stature.  Captain Nemo waswith them.  Before proceeding to dig the walls, he took the soundings,to be sure of working in the right direction.  Long sounding lines weresunk in the side walls, but after fifteen yards they were again stoppedby the thick wall.  It was useless to attack it on the ceiling-likesurface, since the iceberg itself measured more than 400 yards inheight.  Captain Nemo then sounded the lower surface.  There ten yardsof wall separated us from the water, so great was the thickness of theice-field. It was necessary, therefore, to cut from it a piece equal inextent to the waterline of the Nautilus.  There were about 6,000 cubicyards to detach, so as to dig a hole by which we could descend to theice-field. The work had begun immediately and carried on withindefatigable energy.  Instead of digging round the Nautilus whichwould have involved greater difficulty, Captain Nemo had an immensetrench made at eight yards from the port-quarter. Then the men set towork simultaneously with their screws on several points of itscircumference.  Presently the pickaxe attacked this compact mattervigorously, and large blocks were detached from the mass.  By a curiouseffect of specific gravity, these blocks, lighter than water, fled, soto speak, to the vault of the tunnel, that increased in thickness atthe top in proportion as it diminished at the base.  But that matteredlittle, so long as the lower part grew thinner.  After two hours' hardwork, Ned Land came in exhausted.  He and his comrades were replaced bynew workers, whom Conseil and I joined.  The second lieutenant of theNautilus superintended us.  The water seemed singularly cold, but Isoon got warm handling the pickaxe.  My movements were free enough,although they were made under a pressure of thirty atmospheres.  When Ire-entered, after working two hours, to take some food and rest, Ifound a perceptible difference between the pure fluid with which theRouquayrol engine supplied me and the atmosphere of the Nautilus,already charged with carbonic acid.  The air had not been renewed forforty-eight hours, and its vivifying qualities were considerablyenfeebled.  However, after a lapse of twelve hours, we had only raiseda block of ice one yard thick, on the marked surface, which was about600 cubic yards!  Reckoning that it took twelve hours to accomplishthis much it would take five nights and four days to bring thisenterprise to a satisfactory conclusion.  Five nights and four days!And we have only air enough for two days in the reservoirs!  "Withouttaking into account," said Ned, "that, even if we get out of thisinfernal prison, we shall also be imprisoned under the iceberg, shutout from all possible communication with the atmosphere." True enough!Who could then foresee the minimum of time necessary for ourdeliverance?  We might be suffocated before the Nautilus could regainthe surface of the waves?  Was it destined to perish in this ice-tomb,with all those it enclosed?  The situation was terrible.  But everyonehad looked the danger in the face, and each was determined to do hisduty to the last.
As I expected, during the night a new block a yard square was carriedaway, and still further sank the immense hollow.  But in the morningwhen, dressed in my cork-jacket, I traversed the slushy mass at atemperature of six or seven degrees below zero, I remarked that theside walls were gradually closing in.  The beds of water farthest fromthe trench, that were not warmed by the men's work, showed a tendencyto solidification.  In presence of this new and imminent danger, whatwould become of our chances of safety, and how hinder thesolidification of this liquid medium, that would burst the partitionsof the Nautilus like glass?
I did not tell my companions of this new danger.  What was the good ofdamping the energy they displayed in the painful work of escape?  Butwhen I went on board again, I told Captain Nemo of this gravecomplication.
"I know it," he said, in that calm tone which could counteract the mostterrible apprehensions.  "It is one danger more; but I see no way ofescaping it; the only chance of safety is to go quicker thansolidification.  We must be beforehand with it, that is all."
On this day for several hours I used my pickaxe vigorously.  The workkept me up.  Besides, to work was to quit the Nautilus, and breathedirectly the pure air drawn from the reservoirs, and supplied by ourapparatus, and to quit the impoverished and vitiated atmosphere.Towards evening the trench was dug one yard deeper.  When I returned onboard, I was nearly suffocated by the carbonic acid with which the airwas filled--ah! if we had only the chemical means to drive away thisdeleterious gas.  We had plenty of oxygen; all this water contained aconsiderable quantity, and by dissolving it with our powerful piles, itwould restore the vivifying fluid.  I had thought well over it; but ofwhat good was that, since the carbonic acid produced by our respirationhad invaded every part of the vessel?  To absorb it, it was necessaryto fill some jars with caustic potash, and to shake them incessantly.Now this substance was wanting on board, and nothing could replace it.On that evening, Captain Nemo ought to open the taps of his reservoirs,and let some pure air into the interior of the Nautilus; without thisprecaution we could not get rid of the sense of suffocation.  The nextday, March 26th, I resumed my miner's work in beginning the fifth yard.The side walls and the lower surface of the iceberg thickened visibly.It was evident that they would meet before the Nautilus was able todisengage itself.  Despair seized me for an instant; my pickaxe nearlyfell from my hands.  What was the good of digging if I must besuffocated, crushed by the water that was turning into stone?--apunishment that the ferocity of the savages even would not haveinvented!  Just then Captain Nemo passed near me.  I touched his handand showed him the walls of our prison.  The wall to port had advancedto at least four yards from the hull of the Nautilus.  The Captainunderstood me, and signed me to follow him.  We went on board.  I tookoff my cork-jacket and accompanied him into the drawing-room.
"M. Aronnax, we must attempt some desperate means, or we shall besealed up in this solidified water as in cement."
"Yes; but what is to be done?"
"Ah! if my Nautilus were strong enough to bear this pressure withoutbeing crushed!"
"Well?"  I asked, not catching the Captain's idea.
"Do you not understand," he replied, "that this congelation of waterwill help us?  Do you not see that by its solidification, it wouldburst through this field of ice that imprisons us, as, when it freezes,it bursts the hardest stones?  Do you not perceive that it would be anagent of safety instead of destruction?"
"Yes, Captain, perhaps.  But, whatever resistance to crushing theNautilus possesses, it could not support this terrible pressure, andwould be flattened like an iron plate."
"I know it, sir.  Therefore we must not reckon on the aid of nature,but on our own exertions.  We must stop this solidification.  Not onlywill the side walls be pressed together; but there is not ten feet ofwater before or behind the Nautilus.  The congelation gains on us onall sides."
"How long will the air in the reservoirs last for us to breathe onboard?"
The Captain looked in my face.  "After to-morrow they will be empty!"
A cold sweat came over me.  However, ought I to have been astonished atthe answer?  On March 22, the Nautilus was in the open polar seas.  Wewere at 26°. For five days we had lived on the reserve on board.And what was left of the respirable air must be kept for the workers.Even now, as I write, my recollection is still so vivid that aninvoluntary terror seizes me and my lungs seem to be without air.Meanwhile, Captain Nemo reflected silently, and evidently an idea hadstruck him; but he seemed to reject it.  At last, these words escapedhis lips:
"Boiling water!" he muttered.
"Boiling water?"  I cried.
"Yes, sir.  We are enclosed in a space that is relatively confined.Would not jets of boiling water, constantly injected by the pumps,raise the temperature in this part and stay the congelation?"
"Let us try it," I said resolutely.
"Let us try it, Professor."
The thermometer then stood at 7° outside.  Captain Nemo took me tothe galleys, where the vast distillatory machines stood that furnishedthe drinkable water by evaporation.  They filled these with water, andall the electric heat from the piles was thrown through the wormsbathed in the liquid.  In a few minutes this water reached 100°. Itwas directed towards the pumps, while fresh water replaced it inproportion.  The heat developed by the troughs was such that coldwater, drawn up from the sea after only having gone through themachines, came boiling into the body of the pump.  The injection wasbegun, and three hours after the thermometer marked 6° below zerooutside.  One degree was gained.  Two hours later the thermometer onlymarked 4°.
"We shall succeed," I said to the Captain, after having anxiouslywatched the result of the operation.
"I think," he answered, "that we shall not be crushed.  We have no moresuffocation to fear."
During the night the temperature of the water rose to 1° belowzero.  The injections could not carry it to a higher point.  But, asthe congelation of the sea-water produces at least 2°, I was atleast reassured against the dangers of solidification.
The next day, March 27th, six yards of ice had been cleared, twelvefeet only remaining to be cleared away.  There was yet forty-eighthours' work.  The air could not be renewed in the interior of theNautilus.  And this day would make it worse.  An intolerable weightoppressed me.  Towards three o'clock in the evening this feeling roseto a violent degree.  Yawns dislocated my jaws.  My lungs panted asthey inhaled this burning fluid, which became rarefied more and more.A moral torpor took hold of me.  I was powerless, almost unconscious.My brave Conseil, though exhibiting the same symptoms and suffering inthe same manner, never left me.  He took my hand and encouraged me, andI heard him murmur, "Oh! if I could only not breathe, so as to leavemore air for my master!"
Tears came into my eyes on hearing him speak thus.  If our situation toall was intolerable in the interior, with what haste and gladness wouldwe put on our cork-jackets to work in our turn!  Pickaxes sounded onthe frozen ice-beds. Our arms ached, the skin was torn off our hands.But what were these fatigues, what did the wounds matter?  Vital aircame to the lungs!  We breathed! we breathed!
All this time no one prolonged his voluntary task beyond the prescribedtime.  His task accomplished, each one handed in turn to his pantingcompanions the apparatus that supplied him with life.  Captain Nemo setthe example, and submitted first to this severe discipline.  When thetime came, he gave up his apparatus to another and returned to thevitiated air on board, calm, unflinching, unmurmuring.
On that day the ordinary work was accomplished with unusual vigour.Only two yards remained to be raised from the surface.  Two yards onlyseparated us from the open sea.  But the reservoirs were nearly emptiedof air.  The little that remained ought to be kept for the workers; nota particle for the Nautilus.  When I went back on board, I was halfsuffocated.  What a night!  I know not how to describe it.  The nextday my breathing was oppressed.  Dizziness accompanied the pain in myhead and made me like a drunken man.  My companions showed the samesymptoms.  Some of the crew had rattling in the throat.
On that day, the sixth of our imprisonment, Captain Nemo, finding thepickaxes work too slowly, resolved to crush the ice-bed that stillseparated us from the liquid sheet.  This man's coolness and energynever forsook him.  He subdued his physical pains by moral force.
By his orders the vessel was lightened, that is to say, raised from theice-bed by a change of specific gravity.  When it floated they towed itso as to bring it above the immense trench made on the level of thewater-line. Then, filling his reservoirs of water, he descended andshut himself up in the hole.
Just then all the crew came on board, and the double door ofcommunication was shut.  The Nautilus then rested on the bed of ice,which was not one yard thick, and which the sounding leads hadperforated in a thousand places.  The taps of the reservoirs were thenopened, and a hundred cubic yards of water was let in, increasing theweight of the Nautilus to 1,800 tons.  We waited, we listened,forgetting our sufferings in hope.  Our safety depended on this lastchance.  Notwithstanding the buzzing in my head, I soon heard thehumming sound under the hull of the Nautilus.  The ice cracked with asingular noise, like tearing paper, and the Nautilus sank.
"We are off!" murmured Conseil in my ear.
I could not answer him.  I seized his hand, and pressed itconvulsively.  All at once, carried away by its frightful overcharge,the Nautilus sank like a bullet under the waters, that is to say, itfell as if it was in a vacuum.  Then all the electric force was put onthe pumps, that soon began to let the water out of the reservoirs.After some minutes, our fall was stopped.  Soon, too, the manometerindicated an ascending movement.  The screw, going at full speed, madethe iron hull tremble to its very bolts and drew us towards the north.But if this floating under the iceberg is to last another day before wereach the open sea, I shall be dead first.
Half stretched upon a divan in the library, I was suffocating.  My facewas purple, my lips blue, my faculties suspended.  I neither saw norheard.  All notion of time had gone from my mind.  My muscles could notcontract.  I do not know how many hours passed thus, but I wasconscious of the agony that was coming over me.  I felt as if I wasgoing to die.  Suddenly I came to.  Some breaths of air penetrated mylungs.  Had we risen to the surface of the waves?  Were we free of theiceberg?  No!  Ned and Conseil, my two brave friends, were sacrificingthemselves to save me.  Some particles of air still remained at thebottom of one apparatus.  Instead of using it, they had kept it for me,and, while they were being suffocated, they gave me life, drop by drop.I wanted to push back the thing; they held my hands, and for somemoments I breathed freely.  I looked at the clock; it was eleven in themorning.  It ought to be the 28th of March.  The Nautilus went at afrightful pace, forty miles an hour.  It literally tore through thewater.  Where was Captain Nemo?  Had he succumbed?  Were his companionsdead with him?  At the moment the manometer indicated that we were notmore than twenty feet from the surface.  A mere plate of ice separatedus from the atmosphere.  Could we not break it?  Perhaps.  In any casethe Nautilus was going to attempt it.  I felt that it was in an obliqueposition, lowering the stern, and raising the bows.  The introductionof water had been the means of disturbing its equilibrium.  Then,impelled by its powerful screw, it attacked the ice-field from beneathlike a formidable battering-ram.  It broke it by backing and thenrushing forward against the field, which gradually gave way; and atlast, dashing suddenly against it, shot forwards on the ice-field, thatcrushed beneath its weight.  The panel was opened--one might say tornoff--and the pure air came in in abundance to all parts of the Nautilus.


CHAPTER XVII
FROM CAPE HORN TO THE AMAZON
How I got on to the platform, I have no idea; perhaps the Canadian hadcarried me there.  But I breathed, I inhaled the vivifying sea-air.  Mytwo companions were getting drunk with the fresh particles.  The otherunhappy men had been so long without food, that they could not withimpunity indulge in the simplest aliments that were given them.  We, onthe contrary, had no end to restrain ourselves; we could draw this airfreely into our lungs, and it was the breeze, the breeze alone, thatfilled us with this keen enjoyment.
"Ah!" said Conseil, "how delightful this oxygen is!  Master need notfear to breathe it.  There is enough for everybody."
Ned Land did not speak, but he opened his jaws wide enough to frightena shark.  Our strength soon returned, and, when I looked round me, Isaw we were alone on the platform.  The foreign seamen in the Nautiluswere contented with the air that circulated in the interior; none ofthem had come to drink in the open air.
The first words I spoke were words of gratitude and thankfulness to mytwo companions.  Ned and Conseil had prolonged my life during the lasthours of this long agony.  All my gratitude could not repay suchdevotion.
"My friends," said I, "we are bound one to the other for ever, and I amunder infinite obligations to you."
"Which I shall take advantage of," exclaimed the Canadian.
"What do you mean?" said Conseil.
"I mean that I shall take you with me when I leave this infernalNautilus."
"Well," said Conseil, "after all this, are we going right?"
"Yes," I replied, "for we are going the way of the sun, and here thesun is in the north."
"No doubt," said Ned Land; "but it remains to be seen whether he willbring the ship into the Pacific or the Atlantic Ocean, that is, intofrequented or deserted seas."
I could not answer that question, and I feared that Captain Nemo wouldrather take us to the vast ocean that touches the coasts of Asia andAmerica at the same time.  He would thus complete the tour round thesubmarine world, and return to those waters in which the Nautilus couldsail freely.  We ought, before long, to settle this important point.The Nautilus went at a rapid pace.  The polar circle was soon passed,and the course shaped for Cape Horn.  We were off the American point,March 31st, at seven o'clock in the evening.  Then all our pastsufferings were forgotten.  The remembrance of that imprisonment in theice was effaced from our minds.  We only thought of the future.Captain Nemo did not appear again either in the drawing-room or on theplatform.  The point shown each day on the planisphere, and, marked bythe lieutenant, showed me the exact direction of the Nautilus.  Now, onthat evening, it was evident, to, my great satisfaction, that we weregoing back to the North by the Atlantic.  The next day, April 1st, whenthe Nautilus ascended to the surface some minutes before noon, wesighted land to the west.  It was Terra del Fuego, which the firstnavigators named thus from seeing the quantity of smoke that rose fromthe natives' huts.  The coast seemed low to me, but in the distancerose high mountains.  I even thought I had a glimpse of MountSarmiento, that rises 2,070 yards above the level of the sea, with avery pointed summit, which, according as it is misty or clear, is asign of fine or of wet weather.  At this moment the peak was clearlydefined against the sky.  The Nautilus, diving again under the water,approached the coast, which was only some few miles off.  From theglass windows in the drawing-room, I saw long seaweeds and giganticfuci and varech, of which the open polar sea contains so manyspecimens, with their sharp polished filaments; they measured about 300yards in length--real cables, thicker than one's thumb; and, havinggreat tenacity, they are often used as ropes for vessels.  Another weedknown as velp, with leaves four feet long, buried in the coralconcretions, hung at the bottom.  It served as nest and food formyriads of crustacea and molluscs, crabs, and cuttlefish.  There sealsand otters had splendid repasts, eating the flesh of fish withsea-vegetables, according to the English fashion.  Over this fertileand luxuriant ground the Nautilus passed with great rapidity.  Towardsevening it approached the Falkland group, the rough summits of which Irecognised the following day.  The depth of the sea was moderate.  Onthe shores our nets brought in beautiful specimens of sea weed, andparticularly a certain fucus, the roots of which were filled with thebest mussels in the world.  Geese and ducks fell by dozens on theplatform, and soon took their places in the pantry on board.
When the last heights of the Falklands had disappeared from thehorizon, the Nautilus sank to between twenty and twenty-five yards, andfollowed the American coast.  Captain Nemo did not show himself.  Untilthe 3rd of April we did not quit the shores of Patagonia, sometimesunder the ocean, sometimes at the surface.  The Nautilus passed beyondthe large estuary formed by the Uraguay.  Its direction was northwards,and followed the long windings of the coast of South America.  We hadthen made 1,600 miles since our embarkation in the seas of Japan.About eleven o'clock in the morning the Tropic of Capricorn was crossedon the thirty-seventh meridian, and we passed Cape Frio standing out tosea.  Captain Nemo, to Ned Land's great displeasure, did not like theneighbourhood of the inhabited coasts of Brazil, for we went at a giddyspeed.  Not a fish, not a bird of the swiftest kind could follow us,and the natural curiosities of these seas escaped all observation.
This speed was kept up for several days, and in the evening of the 9thof April we sighted the most westerly point of South America that formsCape San Roque.  But then the Nautilus swerved again, and sought thelowest depth of a submarine valley which is between this Cape andSierra Leone on the African coast.  This valley bifurcates to theparallel of the Antilles, and terminates at the mouth by the enormousdepression of 9,000 yards.  In this place, the geological basin of theocean forms, as far as the Lesser Antilles, a cliff to three and a halfmiles perpendicular in height, and, at the parallel of the Cape VerdeIslands, an other wall not less considerable, that encloses thus allthe sunk continent of the Atlantic.  The bottom of this immense valleyis dotted with some mountains, that give to these submarine places apicturesque aspect.  I speak, moreover, from the manuscript charts thatwere in the library of the Nautilus--charts evidently due to CaptainNemo's hand, and made after his personal observations.  For two daysthe desert and deep waters were visited by means of the inclinedplanes.  The Nautilus was furnished with long diagonal broadsides whichcarried it to all elevations.  But on the 11th of April it rosesuddenly, and land appeared at the mouth of the Amazon River, a vastestuary, the embouchure of which is so considerable that it freshensthe sea-water for the distance of several leagues.
The equator was crossed. Twenty miles to the west were the Guianas, aFrench territory, on which we could have found an easy refuge; but astiff breeze was blowing, and the furious waves would not have alloweda single boat to face them. Ned Land understood that, no doubt, for hespoke not a word about it. For my part, I made no allusion to hisschemes of flight, for I would not urge him to make an attempt thatmust inevitably fail. I made the time pass pleasantly by interestingstudies.  During the days of April 11th and 12th, the Nautilus did notleave the surface of the sea, and the net brought in a marvellous haulof Zoophytes, fish and reptiles. Some zoophytes had been fished up bythe chain of the nets; they were for the most part beautifulphyctallines, belonging to the actinidian family, and among otherspecies the phyctalis protexta, peculiar to that part of the ocean,with a little cylindrical trunk, ornamented With vertical lines,speckled with red dots, crowning a marvellous blossoming of tentacles.As to the molluscs, they consisted of some I had alreadyobserved--turritellas, olive porphyras, with regular linesintercrossed, with red spots standing out plainly against the flesh;odd pteroceras, like petrified scorpions; translucid hyaleas,argonauts, cuttle-fish (excellent eating), and certain species ofcalmars that naturalists of antiquity have classed amongst theflying-fish, and that serve principally for bait for cod-fishing. I hadnow an opportunity of studying several species of fish on these shores.Amongst the cartilaginous ones, petromyzons-pricka, a sort of eel,fifteen inches long, with a greenish head, violet fins, grey-blue back,brown belly, silvered and sown with bright spots, the pupil of the eyeencircled with gold--a curious animal, that the current of the Amazonhad drawn to the sea, for they inhabit fresh waters--tuberculatedstreaks, with pointed snouts, and a long loose tail, armed with a longjagged sting; little sharks, a yard long, grey and whitish skin, andseveral rows of teeth, bent back, that are generally known by the nameof pantouffles; vespertilios, a kind of red isosceles triangle, half ayard long, to which pectorals are attached by fleshy prolongations thatmake them look like bats, but that their horny appendage, situated nearthe nostrils, has given them the name of sea-unicorns; lastly, somespecies of balistae, the curassavian, whose spots were of a brilliantgold colour, and the capriscus of clear violet, and with varying shadeslike a pigeon's throat.
I end here this catalogue, which is somewhat dry perhaps, but veryexact, with a series of bony fish that I observed in passing belongingto the apteronotes, and whose snout is white as snow, the body of abeautiful black, marked with a very long loose fleshy strip;odontognathes, armed with spikes; sardines nine inches long, glitteringwith a bright silver light; a species of mackerel provided with twoanal fins; centronotes of a blackish tint, that are fished for withtorches, long fish, two yards in length, with fat flesh, white andfirm, which, when they arc fresh, taste like eel, and when dry, likesmoked salmon; labres, half red, covered with scales only at the bottomof the dorsal and anal fins; chrysoptera, on which gold and silverblend their brightness with that of the ruby and topaz; golden-tailedspares, the flesh of which is extremely delicate, and whosephosphorescent properties betray them in the midst of the waters;orange-coloured spares with long tongues; maigres, with gold caudalfins, dark thorn-tails, anableps of Surinam, etc.
Notwithstanding this "et cetera," I must not omit to mention fish thatConseil will long remember, and with good reason. One of our nets hadhauled up a sort of very flat ray fish, which, with the tail cut off,formed a perfect disc, and weighed twenty ounces. It was whiteunderneath, red above, with large round spots of dark blue encircledwith black, very glossy skin, terminating in a bilobed fin. Laid out onthe platform, it struggled, tried to turn itself by convulsivemovements, and made so many efforts, that one last turn had nearly sentit into the sea. But Conseil, not wishing to let the fish go, rushed toit, and, before I could prevent him, had seized it with both hands. Ina moment he was overthrown, his legs in the air, and half his bodyparalysed, crying--
"Oh! master, master! help me!"
It was the first time the poor boy had spoken to me so familiarly.  TheCanadian and I took him up, and rubbed his contracted arms till hebecame sensible. The unfortunate Conseil had attacked a cramp-fish ofthe most dangerous kind, the cumana. This odd animal, in a mediumconductor like water, strikes fish at several yards' distance, so greatis the power of its electric organ, the two principal surfaces of whichdo not measure less than twenty-seven square feet. The next day, April12th, the Nautilus approached the Dutch coast, near the mouth of theMaroni. There several groups of sea-cows herded together; they weremanatees, that, like the dugong and the stellera, belong to the skenianorder. These beautiful animals, peaceable and inoffensive, fromeighteen to twenty-one feet in length, weigh at least sixteenhundredweight. I told Ned Land and Conseil that provident nature hadassigned an important role to these mammalia. Indeed, they, like theseals, are designed to graze on the submarine prairies, and thusdestroy the accumulation of weed that obstructs the tropical rivers.
"And do you know," I added, "what has been the result since men havealmost entirely annihilated this useful race? That the putrefied weedshave poisoned the air, and the poisoned air causes the yellow fever,that desolates these beautiful countries. Enormous vegetations aremultiplied under the torrid seas, and the evil is irresistiblydeveloped from the mouth of the Rio de la Plata to Florida. If we areto believe Toussenel, this plague is nothing to what it would be if theseas were cleaned of whales and seals. Then, infested with poulps,medusae, and cuttle-fish, they would become immense centres ofinfection, since their waves would not possess 'these vast stomachsthat God had charged to infest the surface of the seas.'"


CHAPTER XVIII
THE POULPS
For several days the Nautilus kept off from the American coast.Evidently it did not wish to risk the tides of the Gulf of Mexico or ofthe sea of the Antilles.  April 16th, we sighted Martinique andGuadaloupe from a distance of about thirty miles.  I saw their tallpeaks for an instant.  The Canadian, who counted on carrying out hisprojects in the Gulf, by either landing or hailing one of the numerousboats that coast from one island to another, was quite disheartened.Flight would have been quite practicable, if Ned Land had been able totake possession of the boat without the Captain's knowledge.  But inthe open sea it could not be thought of.  The Canadian, Conseil, and Ihad a long conversation on this subject.  For six months we had beenprisoners on board the Nautilus.  We had travelled 17,000 leagues; and,as Ned Land said, there was no reason why it should come to an end.  Wecould hope nothing from the Captain of the Nautilus, but only fromourselves.  Besides, for some time past he had become graver, moreretired, less sociable.  He seemed to shun me.  I met him rarely.Formerly he was pleased to explain the submarine marvels to me; now heleft me to my studies, and came no more to the saloon.  What change hadcome over him?  For what cause?  For my part, I did not wish to burywith me my curious and novel studies.  I had now the power to write thetrue book of the sea; and this book, sooner or later, I wished to seedaylight.  The land nearest us was the archipelago of the Bahamas.There rose high submarine cliffs covered with large weeds.  It wasabout eleven o'clock when Ned Land drew my attention to a formidablepricking, like the sting of an ant, which was produced by means oflarge seaweeds.
"Well," I said, "these are proper caverns for poulps, and I should notbe astonished to see some of these monsters."
"What!" said Conseil; "cuttlefish, real cuttlefish of the cephalopodclass?"
"No," I said, "poulps of huge dimensions."
"I will never believe that such animals exist," said Ned.
"Well," said Conseil, with the most serious air in the world, "Iremember perfectly to have seen a large vessel drawn under the waves byan octopus's arm."
"You saw that?" said the Canadian.
"Yes, Ned."
"With your own eyes?"
"With my own eyes."
"Where, pray, might that be?"
"At St. Malo," answered Conseil.
"In the port?" said Ned, ironically.
"No; in a church," replied Conseil.
"In a church!" cried the Canadian.
"Yes; friend Ned.  In a picture representing the poulp in question."
"Good!" said Ned Land, bursting out laughing.
"He is quite right," I said.  "I have heard of this picture; but thesubject represented is taken from a legend, and you know what to thinkof legends in the matter of natural history.  Besides, when it is aquestion of monsters, the imagination is apt to run wild.  Not only isit supposed that these poulps can draw down vessels, but a certainOlaus Magnus speaks of an octopus a mile long that is more like anisland than an animal.  It is also said that the Bishop of Nidros wasbuilding an altar on an immense rock.  Mass finished, the rock began towalk, and returned to the sea.  The rock was a poulp.  Another Bishop,Pontoppidan, speaks also of a poulp on which a regiment of cavalrycould manoeuvre.  Lastly, the ancient naturalists speak of monsterswhose mouths were like gulfs, and which were too large to pass throughthe Straits of Gibraltar."
"But how much is true of these stories?" asked Conseil.
"Nothing, my friends; at least of that which passes the limit of truthto get to fable or legend.  Nevertheless, there must be some ground forthe imagination of the story-tellers. One cannot deny that poulps andcuttlefish exist of a large species, inferior, however, to thecetaceans.  Aristotle has stated the dimensions of a cuttlefish as fivecubits, or nine feet two inches.  Our fishermen frequently see somethat are more than four feet long.  Some skeletons of poulps arepreserved in the museums of Trieste and Montpelier, that measure twoyards in length.  Besides, according to the calculations of somenaturalists, one of these animals only six feet long would havetentacles twenty-seven feet long.  That would suffice to make aformidable monster."
"Do they fish for them in these days?" asked Ned.
"If they do not fish for them, sailors see them at least.  One of myfriends, Captain Paul Bos of Havre, has often affirmed that he met oneof these monsters of colossal dimensions in the Indian seas.  But themost astonishing fact, and which does not permit of the denial of theexistence of these gigantic animals, happened some years ago, in 1861."
"What is the fact?" asked Ned Land.
"This is it.  In 1861, to the north-east of Teneriffe, very nearly inthe same latitude we are in now, the crew of the despatch-boat Alectorperceived a monstrous cuttlefish swimming in the waters.  CaptainBouguer went near to the animal, and attacked it with harpoon and guns,without much success, for balls and harpoons glided over the softflesh.  After several fruitless attempts the crew tried to pass aslip-knot round the body of the mollusc.  The noose slipped as far asthe tail fins and there stopped.  They tried then to haul it on board,but its weight was so considerable that the tightness of the cordseparated the tail from the body, and, deprived of this ornament, hedisappeared under the water."
"Indeed! is that a fact?"
"An indisputable fact, my good Ned.  They proposed to name this poulp`Bouguer's cuttlefish.'"
"What length was it?" asked the Canadian.
"Did it not measure about six yards?" said Conseil, who, posted at thewindow, was examining again the irregular windings of the cliff.
"Precisely," I replied.
"Its head," rejoined Conseil, "was it not crowned with eight tentacles,that beat the water like a nest of serpents?"
"Precisely."
"Had not its eyes, placed at the back of its head, considerabledevelopment?"
"Yes, Conseil."
"And was not its mouth like a parrot's beak?"
"Exactly, Conseil."
"Very well! no offence to master," he replied, quietly; "if this is notBouguer's cuttlefish, it is, at least, one of its brothers."
I looked at Conseil.  Ned Land hurried to the window.
"What a horrible beast!" he cried.
I looked in my turn, and could not repress a gesture of disgust.Before my eyes was a horrible monster worthy to figure in the legendsof the marvellous.  It was an immense cuttlefish, being eight yardslong.  It swam crossways in the direction of the Nautilus with greatspeed, watching us with its enormous staring green eyes.  Its eightarms, or rather feet, fixed to its head, that have given the name ofcephalopod to these animals, were twice as long as its body, and weretwisted like the furies' hair.  One could see the 250 air holes on theinner side of the tentacles.  The monster's mouth, a horned beak like aparrot's, opened and shut vertically.  Its tongue, a horned substance,furnished with several rows of pointed teeth, came out quivering fromthis veritable pair of shears.  What a freak of nature, a bird's beakon a mollusc!  Its spindle-like body formed a fleshy mass that mightweigh 4,000 to 5,000 lb.; the, varying colour changing with greatrapidity, according to the irritation of the animal, passedsuccessively from livid grey to reddish brown.  What irritated thismollusc?  No doubt the presence of the Nautilus, more formidable thanitself, and on which its suckers or its jaws had no hold.  Yet, whatmonsters these poulps are! what vitality the Creator has given them!what vigour in their movements! and they possess three hearts!  Chancehad brought us in presence of this cuttlefish, and I did not wish tolose the opportunity of carefully studying this specimen ofcephalopods.  I overcame the horror that inspired me, and, taking apencil, began to draw it.
"Perhaps this is the same which the Alector saw," said Conseil.
"No," replied the Canadian; "for this is whole, and the other had lostits tail."
"That is no reason," I replied.  "The arms and tails of these animalsare re-formed by renewal; and in seven years the tail of Bouguer'scuttlefish has no doubt had time to grow."
By this time other poulps appeared at the port light.  I counted seven.They formed a procession after the Nautilus, and I heard their beaksgnashing against the iron hull.  I continued my work.  These monsterskept in the water with such precision that they seemed immovable.Suddenly the Nautilus stopped.  A shock made it tremble in every plate.
"Have we struck anything?"  I asked.
"In any case," replied the Canadian, "we shall be free, for we arefloating."
The Nautilus was floating, no doubt, but it did not move.  A minutepassed.  Captain Nemo, followed by his lieutenant, entered thedrawing-room. I had not seen him for some time.  He seemed dull.Without noticing or speaking to us, he went to the panel, looked at thepoulps, and said something to his lieutenant.  The latter went out.Soon the panels were shut.  The ceiling was lighted.  I went towardsthe Captain.
"A curious collection of poulps?"  I said.
"Yes, indeed, Mr. Naturalist," he replied; "and we are going to fightthem, man to beast."
I looked at him.  I thought I had not heard aright.
"Man to beast?"  I repeated.
"Yes, sir.  The screw is stopped.  I think that the horny jaws of oneof the cuttlefish is entangled in the blades.  That is what preventsour moving."
"What are you going to do?"
"Rise to the surface, and slaughter this vermin."
"A difficult enterprise."
"Yes, indeed.  The electric bullets are powerless against the softflesh, where they do not find resistance enough to go off.  But weshall attack them with the hatchet."
"And the harpoon, sir," said the Canadian, "if you do not refuse myhelp."
"I will accept it, Master Land."
"We will follow you," I said, and, following Captain Nemo, we wenttowards the central staircase.
There, about ten men with boarding-hatchets were ready for the attack.Conseil and I took two hatchets; Ned Land seized a harpoon.  TheNautilus had then risen to the surface.  One of the sailors, posted onthe top ladderstep, unscrewed the bolts of the panels.  But hardly werethe screws loosed, when the panel rose with great violence, evidentlydrawn by the suckers of a poulp's arm.  Immediately one of these armsslid like a serpent down the opening and twenty others were above.With one blow of the axe, Captain Nemo cut this formidable tentacle,that slid wriggling down the ladder.  Just as we were pressing one onthe other to reach the platform, two other arms, lashing the air, camedown on the seaman placed before Captain Nemo, and lifted him up withirresistible power.  Captain Nemo uttered a cry, and rushed out.  Wehurried after him.
What a scene!  The unhappy man, seized by the tentacle and fixed to thesuckers, was balanced in the air at the caprice of this enormous trunk.He rattled in his throat, he was stifled, he cried, "Help! help!"These words, spoken in French, startled me!  I had a fellow-countrymanon board, perhaps several!  That heart-rending cry!  I shall hear itall my life.  The unfortunate man was lost.  Who could rescue him fromthat powerful pressure?  However, Captain Nemo had rushed to the poulp,and with one blow of the axe had cut through one arm.  His lieutenantstruggled furiously against other monsters that crept on the flanks ofthe Nautilus.  The crew fought with their axes.  The Canadian, Conseil,and I buried our weapons in the fleshy masses; a strong smell of muskpenetrated the atmosphere.  It was horrible!
For one instant, I thought the unhappy man, entangled with the poulp,would be torn from its powerful suction.  Seven of the eight arms hadbeen cut off.  One only wriggled in the air, brandishing the victimlike a feather.  But just as Captain Nemo and his lieutenant threwthemselves on it, the animal ejected a stream of black liquid.  We wereblinded with it.  When the cloud dispersed, the cuttlefish haddisappeared, and my unfortunate countryman with it.  Ten or twelvepoulps now invaded the platform and sides of the Nautilus.  We rolledpell-mell into the midst of this nest of serpents, that wriggled on theplatform in the waves of blood and ink.  It seemed as though theseslimy tentacles sprang up like the hydra's heads.  Ned Land's harpoon,at each stroke, was plunged into the staring eyes of the cuttle fish.But my bold companion was suddenly overturned by the tentacles of amonster he had not been able to avoid.
Ah! how my heart beat with emotion and horror!  The formidable beak ofa cuttlefish was open over Ned Land.  The unhappy man would be cut intwo.  I rushed to his succour.  But Captain Nemo was before me; his axedisappeared between the two enormous jaws, and, miraculously saved, theCanadian, rising, plunged his harpoon deep into the triple heart of thepoulp.
"I owed myself this revenge!" said the Captain to the Canadian.
Ned bowed without replying.  The combat had lasted a quarter of anhour.  The monsters, vanquished and mutilated, left us at last, anddisappeared under the waves.  Captain Nemo, covered with blood, nearlyexhausted, gazed upon the sea that had swallowed up one of hiscompanions, and great tears gathered in his eyes.


CHAPTER XIX
THE GULF STREAM
This terrible scene of the 20th of April none of us can ever forget.  Ihave written it under the influence of violent emotion.  Since then Ihave revised the recital; I have read it to Conseil and to theCanadian.  They found it exact as to facts, but insufficient as toeffect.  To paint such pictures, one must have the pen of the mostillustrious of our poets, the author of The Toilers of the Deep.
I have said that Captain Nemo wept while watching the waves; his griefwas great.  It was the second companion he had lost since our arrivalon board, and what a death!  That friend, crushed, stifled, bruised bythe dreadful arms of a poulp, pounded by his iron jaws, would not restwith his comrades in the peaceful coral cemetery!  In the midst of thestruggle, it was the despairing cry uttered by the unfortunate man thathad torn my heart.  The poor Frenchman, forgetting his conventionallanguage, had taken to his own mother tongue, to utter a last appeal!Amongst the crew of the Nautilus, associated with the body and soul ofthe Captain, recoiling like him from all contact with men, I had afellow-countryman. Did he alone represent France in this mysteriousassociation, evidently composed of individuals of divers nationalities?It was one of these insoluble problems that rose up unceasingly beforemy mind!
Captain Nemo entered his room, and I saw him no more for some time.But that he was sad and irresolute I could see by the vessel, of whichhe was the soul, and which received all his impressions.  The Nautilusdid not keep on in its settled course; it floated about like a corpseat the will of the waves.  It went at random.  He could not tearhimself away from the scene of the last struggle, from this sea thathad devoured one of his men.  Ten days passed thus.  It was not tillthe 1st of May that the Nautilus resumed its northerly course, afterhaving sighted the Bahamas at the mouth of the Bahama Canal.  We werethen following the current from the largest river to the sea, that hasits banks, its fish, and its proper temperatures.  I mean the GulfStream.  It is really a river, that flows freely to the middle of theAtlantic, and whose waters do not mix with the ocean waters.  It is asalt river, salter than the surrounding sea.  Its mean depth is 1,500fathoms, its mean breadth ten miles.  In certain places the currentflows with the speed of two miles and a half an hour.  The body of itswaters is more considerable than that of all the rivers in the globe.It was on this ocean river that the Nautilus then sailed.
I must add that, during the night, the phosphorescent waters of theGulf Stream rivalled the electric power of our watch-light, especiallyin the stormy weather that threatened us so frequently.  May 8th, wewere still crossing Cape Hatteras, at the height of the North Caroline.The width of the Gulf Stream there is seventy-five miles, and its depth210 yards.  The Nautilus still went at random; all supervision seemedabandoned.  I thought that, under these circumstances, escape would bepossible.  Indeed, the inhabited shores offered anywhere an easyrefuge.  The sea was incessantly ploughed by the steamers that plybetween New York or Boston and the Gulf of Mexico, and overrun day andnight by the little schooners coasting about the several parts of theAmerican coast.  We could hope to be picked up.  It was a favourableopportunity, notwithstanding the thirty miles that separated theNautilus from the coasts of the Union.  One unfortunate circumstancethwarted the Canadian's plans.  The weather was very bad.  We werenearing those shores where tempests are so frequent, that country ofwaterspouts and cyclones actually engendered by the current of the GulfStream.  To tempt the sea in a frail boat was certain destruction.  NedLand owned this himself.  He fretted, seized with nostalgia that flightonly could cure.
"Master," he said that day to me, "this must come to an end.  I mustmake a clean breast of it.  This Nemo is leaving land and going up tothe north.  But I declare to you that I have had enough of the SouthPole, and I will not follow him to the North."
"What is to be done, Ned, since flight is impracticable just now?"
"We must speak to the Captain," said he; "you said nothing when we werein your native seas.  I will speak, now we are in mine.  When I thinkthat before long the Nautilus will be by Nova Scotia, and that therenear New foundland is a large bay, and into that bay the St. Lawrenceempties itself, and that the St. Lawrence is my river, the river byQuebec, my native town--when I think of this, I feel furious, it makesmy hair stand on end.  Sir, I would rather throw myself into the sea!I will not stay here!  I am stifled!"
The Canadian was evidently losing all patience.  His vigorous naturecould not stand this prolonged imprisonment.  His face altered daily;his temper became more surly.  I knew what he must suffer, for I wasseized with home-sickness myself.  Nearly seven months had passedwithout our having had any news from land; Captain Nemo's isolation,his altered spirits, especially since the fight with the poulps, histaciturnity, all made me view things in a different light.
"Well, sir?" said Ned, seeing I did not reply.
"Well, Ned, do you wish me to ask Captain Nemo his intentionsconcerning us?"
"Yes, sir."
"Although he has already made them known?"
"Yes; I wish it settled finally.  Speak for me, in my name only, if youlike."
"But I so seldom meet him.  He avoids me."
"That is all the more reason for you to go to see him."
I went to my room.  From thence I meant to go to Captain Nemo's.  Itwould not do to let this opportunity of meeting him slip.  I knocked atthe door.  No answer.  I knocked again, then turned the handle.  Thedoor opened, I went in.  The Captain was there.  Bending over hiswork-table, he had not heard me.  Resolved not to go without havingspoken, I approached him.  He raised his head quickly, frowned, andsaid roughly, "You here!  What do you want?"
"To speak to you, Captain."
"But I am busy, sir; I am working.  I leave you at liberty to shutyourself up; cannot I be allowed the same?"
This reception was not encouraging; but I was determined to hear andanswer everything.
"Sir," I said coldly, "I have to speak to you on a matter that admitsof no delay."
"What is that, sir?" he replied, ironically.  "Have you discoveredsomething that has escaped me, or has the sea delivered up any newsecrets?"
We were at cross-purposes. But, before I could reply, he showed me anopen manuscript on his table, and said, in a more serious tone, "Here,M. Aronnax, is a manuscript written in several languages.  It containsthe sum of my studies of the sea; and, if it please God, it shall notperish with me.  This manuscript, signed with my name, complete withthe history of my life, will be shut up in a little floating case.  Thelast survivor of all of us on board the Nautilus will throw this caseinto the sea, and it will go whither it is borne by the waves."
This man's name! his history written by himself!  His mystery wouldthen be revealed some day.
"Captain," I said, "I can but approve of the idea that makes you actthus.  The result of your studies must not be lost.  But the means youemploy seem to me to be primitive.  Who knows where the winds willcarry this case, and in whose hands it will fall?  Could you not usesome other means?  Could not you, or one of yours----"
"Never, sir!" he said, hastily interrupting me.
"But I and my companions are ready to keep this manuscript in store;and, if you will put us at liberty----"
"At liberty?" said the Captain, rising.
"Yes, sir; that is the subject on which I wish to question you.  Forseven months we have been here on board, and I ask you to-day, in thename of my companions and in my own, if your intention is to keep ushere always?"
"M. Aronnax, I will answer you to-day as I did seven months ago:Whoever enters the Nautilus, must never quit it."
"You impose actual slavery upon us!"
"Give it what name you please."
"But everywhere the slave has the right to regain his liberty."
"Who denies you this right?  Have I ever tried to chain you with anoath?"
He looked at me with his arms crossed.
"Sir," I said, "to return a second time to this subject will be neitherto your nor to my taste; but, as we have entered upon it, let us gothrough with it.  I repeat, it is not only myself whom it concerns.Study is to me a relief, a diversion, a passion that could make meforget everything.  Like you, I am willing to live obscure, in thefrail hope of bequeathing one day, to future time, the result of mylabours.  But it is otherwise with Ned Land.  Every man, worthy of thename, deserves some consideration.  Have you thought that love ofliberty, hatred of slavery, can give rise to schemes of revenge in anature like the Canadian's; that he could think, attempt, and try----"
I was silenced; Captain Nemo rose.
"Whatever Ned Land thinks of, attempts, or tries, what does it matterto me?  I did not seek him!  It is not for my pleasure that I keep himon board!  As for you, M. Aronnax, you are one of those who canunderstand everything, even silence.  I have nothing more to say toyou.  Let this first time you have come to treat of this subject be thelast, for a second time I will not listen to you."
I retired.  Our situation was critical.  I related my conversation tomy two companions.
"We know now," said Ned, "that we can expect nothing from this man.The Nautilus is nearing Long Island.  We will escape, whatever theweather may be."
But the sky became more and more threatening.  Symptoms of a hurricanebecame manifest.  The atmosphere was becoming white and misty.  On thehorizon fine streaks of cirrhous clouds were succeeded by masses ofcumuli.  Other low clouds passed swiftly by.  The swollen sea rose inhuge billows.  The birds disappeared with the exception of the petrels,those friends of the storm.  The barometer fell sensibly, and indicatedan extreme extension of the vapours.  The mixture of the storm glasswas decomposed under the influence of the electricity that pervaded theatmosphere.  The tempest burst on the 18th of May, just as the Nautiluswas floating off Long Island, some miles from the port of New York.  Ican describe this strife of the elements! for, instead of fleeing tothe depths of the sea, Captain Nemo, by an unaccountable caprice, wouldbrave it at the surface.  The wind blew from the south-west at first.Captain Nemo, during the squalls, had taken his place on the platform.He had made himself fast, to prevent being washed overboard by themonstrous waves.  I had hoisted myself up, and made myself fast also,dividing my admiration between the tempest and this extraordinary manwho was coping with it.  The raging sea was swept by huge cloud-drifts,which were actually saturated with the waves.  The Nautilus, sometimeslying on its side, sometimes standing up like a mast, rolled andpitched terribly.  About five o'clock a torrent of rain fell, thatlulled neither sea nor wind.  The hurri cane blew nearly forty leaguesan hour.  It is under these conditions that it overturns houses, breaksiron gates, displaces twenty-four pounders.  However, the Nautilus, inthe midst of the tempest, confirmed the words of a clever engineer,"There is no well-constructed hull that cannot defy the sea." This wasnot a resisting rock; it was a steel spindle, obedient and movable,without rigging or masts, that braved its fury with impunity.  However,I watched these raging waves attentively.  They measured fifteen feetin height, and 150 to 175 yards long, and their speed of propagationwas thirty feet per second.  Their bulk and power increased with thedepth of the water.  Such waves as these, at the Hebrides, havedisplaced a mass weighing 8,400 lb.  They are they which, in thetempest of December 23rd, 1864, after destroying the town of Yeddo, inJapan, broke the same day on the shores of America.  The intensity ofthe tempest increased with the night.  The barometer, as in 1860 atReunion during a cyclone, fell seven-tenths at the close of day.  I sawa large vessel pass the horizon struggling painfully.  She was tryingto lie to under half steam, to keep up above the waves.  It wasprobably one of the steamers of the line from New York to Liverpool, orHavre.  It soon disappeared in the gloom.  At ten o'clock in theevening the sky was on fire.  The atmosphere was streaked with vividlightning.  I could not bear the brightness of it; while the captain,looking at it, seemed to envy the spirit of the tempest.  A terriblenoise filled the air, a complex noise, made up of the howls of thecrushed waves, the roaring of the wind, and the claps of thunder.  Thewind veered suddenly to all points of the horizon; and the cyclone,rising in the east, returned after passing by the north, west, andsouth, in the inverse course pursued by the circular storm of thesouthern hemisphere.  Ah, that Gulf Stream!  It deserves its name ofthe King of Tempests.  It is that which causes those formidablecyclones, by the difference of temperature between its air and itscurrents.  A shower of fire had succeeded the rain.  The drops of waterwere changed to sharp spikes.  One would have thought that Captain Nemowas courting a death worthy of himself, a death by lightning.  As theNautilus, pitching dreadfully, raised its steel spur in the air, itseemed to act as a conductor, and I saw long sparks burst from it.Crushed and without strength I crawled to the panel, opened it, anddescended to the saloon.  The storm was then at its height.  It wasimpossible to stand upright in the interior of the Nautilus.  CaptainNemo came down about twelve.  I heard the reservoirs filling bydegrees, and the Nautilus sank slowly beneath the waves.  Through theopen windows in the saloon I saw large fish terrified, passing likephantoms in the water.  Some were struck before my eyes.  The Nautiluswas still descending.  I thought that at about eight fathoms deep weshould find a calm.  But no! the upper beds were too violently agitatedfor that.  We had to seek repose at more than twenty-five fathoms inthe bowels of the deep.  But there, what quiet, what silence, whatpeace!  Who could have told that such a hurricane had been let loose onthe surface of that ocean?


CHAPTER XX
FROM LATITUDE 47° 24' TO LONGITUDE 17° 28'
In consequence of the storm, we had been thrown eastward once more.All hope of escape on the shores of New York or St. Lawrence had fadedaway; and poor Ned, in despair, had isolated himself like Captain Nemo.Conseil and I, however, never left each other.  I said that theNautilus had gone aside to the east.  I should have said (to be moreexact) the north-east. For some days, it wandered first on the surface,and then beneath it, amid those fogs so dreaded by sailors.  Whataccidents are due to these thick fogs!  What shocks upon these reefswhen the wind drowns the breaking of the waves!  What collisionsbetween vessels, in spite of their warning lights, whistles, and alarmbells!  And the bottoms of these seas look like a field of battle,where still lie all the conquered of the ocean; some old and alreadyencrusted, others fresh and reflecting from their iron bands and copperplates the brilliancy of our lantern.
On the 15th of May we were at the extreme south of the Bank ofNewfoundland.  This bank consists of alluvia, or large heaps of organicmatter, brought either from the Equator by the Gulf Stream, or from theNorth Pole by the counter-current of cold water which skirts theAmerican coast.  There also are heaped up those erratic blocks whichare carried along by the broken ice; and close by, a vast charnel-houseof molluscs, which perish here by millions.  The depth of the sea isnot great at Newfoundland--not more than some hundreds of fathoms; buttowards the south is a depression of 1,500 fathoms.  There the GulfStream widens.  It loses some of its speed and some of its temperature,but it becomes a sea.
It was on the 17th of May, about 500 miles from Heart's Content, at adepth of more than 1,400 fathoms, that I saw the electric cable lyingon the bottom.  Conseil, to whom I had not mentioned it, thought atfirst that it was a gigantic sea-serpent. But I undeceived the worthyfellow, and by way of consolation related several particulars in thelaying of this cable.  The first one was laid in the years 1857 and1858; but, after transmitting about 400 telegrams, would not act anylonger.  In 1863 the engineers constructed an other one, measuring2,000 miles in length, and weighing 4,500 tons, which was embarked onthe Great Eastern.  This attempt also failed.
On the 25th of May the Nautilus, being at a depth of more than 1,918fathoms, was on the precise spot where the rupture occurred whichruined the enterprise.  It was within 638 miles of the coast ofIreland; and at half-past two in the afternoon they discovered thatcommunication with Europe had ceased.  The electricians on boardresolved to cut the cable before fishing it up, and at eleven o'clockat night they had recovered the damaged part.  They made another pointand spliced it, and it was once more submerged.  But some days after itbroke again, and in the depths of the ocean could not be recaptured.The Americans, however, were not discouraged.  Cyrus Field, the boldpromoter of the enterprise, as he had sunk all his own fortune, set anew subscription on foot, which was at once answered, and another cablewas constructed on better principles.  The bundles of conducting wireswere each enveloped in gutta-percha, and protected by a wadding ofhemp, contained in a metallic covering.  The Great Eastern sailed onthe 13th of July, 1866.  The operation worked well.  But one incidentoccurred.  Several times in unrolling the cable they observed thatnails had recently been forced into it, evidently with the motive ofdestroying it.  Captain Anderson, the officers, and engineers consultedtogether, and had it posted up that, if the offender was surprised onboard, he would be thrown without further trial into the sea.  Fromthat time the criminal attempt was never repeated.
On the 23rd of July the Great Eastern was not more than 500 miles fromNewfoundland, when they telegraphed from Ireland the news of thearmistice concluded between Prussia and Austria after Sadowa.  On the27th, in the midst of heavy fogs, they reached the port of Heart'sContent.  The enterprise was successfully terminated; and for its firstdespatch, young America addressed old Europe in these words of wisdom,so rarely understood:  "Glory to God in the highest, and on earthpeace, goodwill towards men."
I did not expect to find the electric cable in its primitive state,such as it was on leaving the manufactory.  The long serpent, coveredwith the remains of shells, bristling with foraminiferae, was encrustedwith a strong coating which served as a protection against all boringmolluscs.  It lay quietly sheltered from the motions of the sea, andunder a favourable pressure for the transmission of the electric sparkwhich passes from Europe to America in .32 of a second.  Doubtless thiscable will last for a great length of time, for they find that thegutta-percha covering is improved by the sea-water. Besides, on thislevel, so well chosen, the cable is never so deeply submerged as tocause it to break.  The Nautilus followed it to the lowest depth, whichwas more than 2,212 fathoms, and there it lay without any anchorage;and then we reached the spot where the accident had taken place in1863.  The bottom of the ocean then formed a valley about 100 milesbroad, in which Mont Blanc might have been placed without its summitappearing above the waves.  This valley is closed at the east by aperpendicular wall more than 2,000 yards high.  We arrived there on the28th of May, and the Nautilus was then not more than 120 miles fromIreland.
Was Captain Nemo going to land on the British Isles?  No. To my greatsurprise he made for the south, once more coming back towards Europeanseas.  In rounding the Emerald Isle, for one instant I caught sight ofCape Clear, and the light which guides the thousands of vessels leavingGlasgow or Liverpool.  An important question then arose in my mind.Did the Nautilus dare entangle itself in the Manche?  Ned Land, who hadre-appeared since we had been nearing land, did not cease to questionme.  How could I answer?  Captain Nemo remained invisible.  Afterhaving shown the Canadian a glimpse of American shores, was he going toshow me the coast of France?
But the Nautilus was still going southward.  On the 30th of May, itpassed in sight of Land's End, between the extreme point of England andthe Scilly Isles, which were left to starboard.  If we wished to enterthe Manche, he must go straight to the east.  He did not do so.
During the whole of the 31st of May, the Nautilus described a series ofcircles on the water, which greatly interested me.  It seemed to beseeking a spot it had some trouble in finding.  At noon, Captain Nemohimself came to work the ship's log.  He spoke no word to me, butseemed gloomier than ever.  What could sadden him thus?  Was it hisproxim ity to European shores?  Had he some recollections of hisabandoned country?  If not, what did he feel?  Remorse or regret?  Fora long while this thought haunted my mind, and I had a kind ofpresentiment that before long chance would betray the captain's secrets.
The next day, the 1st of June, the Nautilus continued the same process.It was evidently seeking some particular spot in the ocean.  CaptainNemo took the sun's altitude as he had done the day before.  The seawas beautiful, the sky clear.  About eight miles to the east, a largesteam vessel could be discerned on the horizon.  No flag fluttered fromits mast, and I could not discover its nationality.  Some minutesbefore the sun passed the meridian, Captain Nemo took his sextant, andwatched with great attention.  The perfect rest of the water greatlyhelped the operation.  The Nautilus was motionless; it neither rollednor pitched.
I was on the platform when the altitude was taken, and the Captainpronounced these words:  "It is here."
He turned and went below.  Had he seen the vessel which was changingits course and seemed to be nearing us?  I could not tell.  I returnedto the saloon.  The panels closed, I heard the hissing of the water inthe reservoirs.  The Nautilus began to sink, following a vertical line,for its screw communicated no motion to it.  Some minutes later itstopped at a depth of more than 420 fathoms, resting on the ground.The luminous ceiling was darkened, then the panels were opened, andthrough the glass I saw the sea brilliantly illuminated by the rays ofour lantern for at least half a mile round us.
I looked to the port side, and saw nothing but an immensity of quietwaters.  But to starboard, on the bottom appeared a large protuberance,which at once attracted my attention.  One would have thought it a ruinburied under a coating of white shells, much resembling a covering ofsnow.  Upon examining the mass attentively, I could recognise theever-thickening form of a vessel bare of its masts, which must havesunk.  It certainly belonged to past times.  This wreck, to be thusencrusted with the lime of the water, must already be able to countmany years passed at the bottom of the ocean.
What was this vessel?  Why did the Nautilus visit its tomb?  Could ithave been aught but a shipwreck which had drawn it under the water?  Iknew not what to think, when near me in a slow voice I heard CaptainNemo say:
"At one time this ship was called the Marseillais.  It carriedseventy-four guns, and was launched in 1762.  In 1778, the 13th ofAugust, commanded by La Poype-Ver trieux, it fought boldly against thePreston.  In 1779, on the 4th of July, it was at the taking of Grenada,with the squadron of Admiral Estaing.  In 1781, on the 5th ofSeptember, it took part in the battle of Comte de Grasse, in ChesapeakeBay.  In 1794, the French Republic changed its name.  On the 16th ofApril, in the same year, it joined the squadron of Villaret Joyeuse, atBrest, being entrusted with the escort of a cargo of corn coming fromAmerica, under the command of Admiral Van Stebel.  On the 11th and 12thPrairal of the second year, this squadron fell in with an Englishvessel.  Sir, to-day is the 13th Prairal, the first of June, 1868.  Itis now seventy-four years ago, day for day on this very spot, inlatitude 47° 24', longitude 17° 28', that this vessel, afterfighting heroically, losing its three masts, with the water in itshold, and the third of its crew disabled, preferred sinking with its356 sailors to surrendering; and, nailing its colours to the poop,disappeared under the waves to the cry of `Long live the Republic!'"
"The Avenger!"  I exclaimed.
"Yes, sir, the Avenger!  A good name!" muttered Captain Nemo, crossinghis arms.


CHAPTER XXI
A HECATOMB
The way of describing this unlooked-for scene, the history of thepatriot ship, told at first so coldly, and the emotion with which thisstrange man pronounced the last words, the name of the Avenger, thesignificance of which could not escape me, all impressed itself deeplyon my mind.  My eyes did not leave the Captain, who, with his handstretched out to sea, was watching with a glowing eye the gloriouswreck.  Perhaps I was never to know who he was, from whence he came, orwhere he was going to, but I saw the man move, and apart from the_savant_.  It was no common misanthropy which had shut Captain Nemo andhis companions within the Nautilus, but a hatred, either monstrous orsublime, which time could never weaken.  Did this hatred still seek forvengeance?  The future would soon teach me that.  But the Nautilus wasrising slowly to the surface of the sea, and the form of the Avengerdisappeared by degrees from my sight.  Soon a slight rolling told methat we were in the open air.  At that moment a dull boom was heard.  Ilooked at the Captain.  He did not move.
"Captain?" said I.
He did not answer.  I left him and mounted the platform.  Conseil andthe Canadian were already there.
"Where did that sound come from?"  I asked.
"It was a gunshot," replied Ned Land.
I looked in the direction of the vessel I had already seen.  It wasnearing the Nautilus, and we could see that it was putting on steam.It was within six miles of us.
"What is that ship, Ned?"
"By its rigging, and the height of its lower masts," said the Canadian,"I bet she is a ship-of-war. May it reach us; and, if necessary, sinkthis cursed Nautilus."
"Friend Ned," replied Conseil, "what harm can it do to the Nautilus?Can it attack it beneath the waves?  Can its cannonade us at the bottomof the sea?"
"Tell me, Ned," said I, "can you recognise what country she belongs to?"
The Canadian knitted his eyebrows, dropped his eyelids, and screwed upthe corners of his eyes, and for a few moments fixed a piercing lookupon the vessel.
"No, sir," he replied; "I cannot tell what nation she belongs to, forshe shows no colours.  But I can declare she is a man-of-war, for along pennant flutters from her main mast."
For a quarter of an hour we watched the ship which was steaming towardsus.  I could not, however, believe that she could see the Nautilus fromthat distance; and still less that she could know what this submarineengine was.  Soon the Canadian informed me that she was a large,armoured, two-decker ram.  A thick black smoke was pouring from her twofunnels.  Her closely-furled sails were stopped to her yards.  Shehoisted no flag at her mizzen-peak. The distance prevented us fromdistinguishing the colours of her pennant, which floated like a thinribbon.  She advanced rapidly.  If Captain Nemo allowed her toapproach, there was a chance of salvation for us.
"Sir," said Ned Land, "if that vessel passes within a mile of us Ishall throw myself into the sea, and I should advise you to do thesame."
I did not reply to the Canadian's suggestion, but continued watchingthe ship.  Whether English, French, American, or Russian, she would besure to take us in if we could only reach her.  Presently a white smokeburst from the fore part of the vessel; some seconds after, the water,agitated by the fall of a heavy body, splashed the stern of theNautilus, and shortly afterwards a loud explosion struck my ear.
"What! they are firing at us!"  I exclaimed.
"So please you, sir," said Ned, "they have recognised the unicorn, andthey are firing at us."
"But," I exclaimed, "surely they can see that there are men in thecase?"
"It is, perhaps, because of that," replied Ned Land, looking at me.
A whole flood of light burst upon my mind.  Doubtless they knew now howto believe the stories of the pretended monster.  No doubt, on boardthe Abraham Lincoln, when the Canadian struck it with the harpoon,Commander Farragut had recognised in the supposed narwhal a submarinevessel, more dangerous than a supernatural cetacean.  Yes, it must havebeen so; and on every sea they were now seeking this engine ofdestruction.  Terrible indeed! if, as we supposed, Captain Nemoemployed the Nautilus in works of vengeance.  On the night when we wereimprisoned in that cell, in the midst of the Indian Ocean, had he notattacked some vessel?  The man buried in the coral cemetery, had he notbeen a victim to the shock caused by the Nautilus?  Yes, I repeat it,it must be so.  One part of the mysterious existence of Captain Nemohad been unveiled; and, if his identity had not been recognised, atleast, the nations united against him were no longer hunting achimerical creature, but a man who had vowed a deadly hatred againstthem.  All the formidable past rose before me.  Instead of meetingfriends on board the approaching ship, we could only expect pitilessenemies.  But the shot rattled about us.  Some of them struck the seaand ricochetted, losing themselves in the distance.  But none touchedthe Nautilus.  The vessel was not more than three miles from us.  Inspite of the serious cannonade, Captain Nemo did not appear on theplatform; but, if one of the conical projectiles had struck the shellof the Nautilus, it would have been fatal.  The Canadian then said,"Sir, we must do all we can to get out of this dilemma.  Let us signalthem.  They will then, perhaps, understand that we are honest folks."
Ned Land took his handkerchief to wave in the air; but he had scarcelydisplayed it, when he was struck down by an iron hand, and fell, inspite of his great strength, upon the deck.
"Fool!" exclaimed the Captain, "do you wish to be pierced by the spurof the Nautilus before it is hurled at this vessel?"
Captain Nemo was terrible to hear; he was still more terrible to see.His face was deadly pale, with a spasm at his heart.  For an instant itmust have ceased to beat.  His pupils were fearfully contracted.  Hedid not speak, he roared, as, with his body thrown forward, he wrungthe Canadian's shoulders.  Then, leaving him, and turning to the shipof war, whose shot was still raining around him, he exclaimed, with apowerful voice, "Ah, ship of an accursed nation, you know who I am!  Ido not want your colours to know you by!  Look! and I will show youmine!"
And on the fore part of the platform Captain Nemo unfurled a blackflag, similar to the one he had placed at the South Pole.  At thatmoment a shot struck the shell of the Nautilus obliquely, withoutpiercing it; and, rebounding near the Captain, was lost in the sea.  Heshrugged his shoulders; and, addressing me, said shortly, "Go down, youand your companions, go down!"
"Sir," I cried, "are you going to attack this vessel?"
"Sir, I am going to sink it."
"You will not do that?"
"I shall do it," he replied coldly.  "And I advise you not to judge me,sir.  Fate has shown you what you ought not to have seen.  The attackhas begun; go down."
"What is this vessel?"
"You do not know?  Very well! so much the better!  Its nationality toyou, at least, will be a secret.  Go down!"
We could but obey.  About fifteen of the sailors surrounded theCaptain, looking with implacable hatred at the vessel nearing them.One could feel that the same desire of vengeance animated every soul.I went down at the moment another projectile struck the Nautilus, and Iheard the Captain exclaim:
"Strike, mad vessel!  Shower your useless shot!  And then, you will notescape the spur of the Nautilus.  But it is not here that you shallperish!  I would not have your ruins mingle with those of the Avenger!"
I reached my room.  The Captain and his second had remained on theplatform.  The screw was set in motion, and the Nautilus, moving withspeed, was soon beyond the reach of the ship's guns.  But the pursuitcontinued, and Captain Nemo contented himself with keeping his distance.
About four in the afternoon, being no longer able to contain myimpatience, I went to the central staircase.  The panel was open, and Iventured on to the platform.  The Captain was still walking up and downwith an agitated step.  He was looking at the ship, which was five orsix miles to leeward.
He was going round it like a wild beast, and, drawing it eastward, heallowed them to pursue.  But he did not attack.  Perhaps he stillhesitated?  I wished to mediate once more.  But I had scarcely spoken,when Captain Nemo imposed silence, saying:
"I am the law, and I am the judge!  I am the oppressed, and there isthe oppressor!  Through him I have lost all that I loved, cherished,and venerated--country, wife, children, father, and mother.  I saw allperish!  All that I hate is there!  Say no more!"
I cast a last look at the man-of-war, which was putting on steam, andrejoined Ned and Conseil.
"We will fly!"  I exclaimed.
"Good!" said Ned.  "What is this vessel?"
"I do not know; but, whatever it is, it will be sunk before night.  Inany case, it is better to perish with it, than be made accomplices in aretaliation the justice of which we cannot judge."
"That is my opinion too," said Ned Land, coolly.  "Let us wait fornight."
Night arrived.  Deep silence reigned on board.  The compass showed thatthe Nautilus had not altered its course.  It was on the surface,rolling slightly.  My companions and I resolved to fly when the vesselshould be near enough either to hear us or to see us; for the moon,which would be full in two or three days, shone brightly.  Once onboard the ship, if we could not prevent the blow which threatened it,we could, at least we would, do all that circumstances would allow.Several times I thought the Nautilus was preparing for attack; butCaptain Nemo contented himself with allowing his adversary to approach,and then fled once more before it.
Part of the night passed without any incident.  We watched theopportunity for action.  We spoke little, for we were too much moved.Ned Land would have thrown himself into the sea, but I forced him towait.  According to my idea, the Nautilus would attack the ship at herwaterline, and then it would not only be possible, but easy to fly.
At three in the morning, full of uneasiness, I mounted the platform.Captain Nemo had not left it.  He was standing at the fore part nearhis flag, which a slight breeze displayed above his head.  He did nottake his eyes from the vessel.  The intensity of his look seemed toattract, and fascinate, and draw it onward more surely than if he hadbeen towing it.  The moon was then passing the meridian.  Jupiter wasrising in the east.  Amid this peaceful scene of nature, sky and oceanrivalled each other in tranquillity, the sea offering to the orbs ofnight the finest mirror they could ever have in which to reflect theirimage.  As I thought of the deep calm of these elements, compared withall those passions brooding imperceptibly within the Nautilus, Ishuddered.
The vessel was within two miles of us.  It was ever nearing thatphosphorescent light which showed the presence of the Nautilus.  Icould see its green and red lights, and its white lantern hanging fromthe large foremast.  An indistinct vibration quivered through itsrigging, showing that the furnaces were heated to the uttermost.Sheaves of sparks and red ashes flew from the funnels, shining in theatmosphere like stars.
I remained thus until six in the morning, without Captain Nemo noticingme.  The ship stood about a mile and a half from us, and with the firstdawn of day the firing began afresh.  The moment could not be far offwhen, the Nautilus attacking its adversary, my companions and myselfshould for ever leave this man.  I was preparing to go down to remindthem, when the second mounted the platform, accompanied by severalsailors.  Captain Nemo either did not or would not see them.  Somesteps were taken which might be called the signal for action.  Theywere very simple.  The iron balustrade around the platform was lowered,and the lantern and pilot cages were pushed within the shell until theywere flush with the deck.  The long surface of the steel cigar nolonger offered a single point to check its manoeuvres.  I returned tothe saloon.  The Nautilus still floated; some streaks of light werefiltering through the liquid beds.  With the undulations of the wavesthe windows were brightened by the red streaks of the rising sun, andthis dreadful day of the 2nd of June had dawned.
At five o'clock, the log showed that the speed of the Nautilus wasslackening, and I knew that it was allowing them to draw nearer.Besides, the reports were heard more distinctly, and the projectiles,labouring through the ambient water, were extinguished with a strangehissing noise.
"My friends," said I, "the moment is come.  One grasp of the hand, andmay God protect us!"
Ned Land was resolute, Conseil calm, myself so nervous that I knew nothow to contain myself.  We all passed into the library; but the momentI pushed the door opening on to the central staircase, I heard theupper panel close sharply.  The Canadian rushed on to the stairs, but Istopped him.  A well-known hissing noise told me that the water wasrunning into the reservoirs, and in a few minutes the Nautilus was someyards beneath the surface of the waves.  I understood the manoeuvre.It was too late to act.  The Nautilus did not wish to strike at theimpenetrable cuirass, but below the water-line, where the metalliccovering no longer protected it.
We were again imprisoned, unwilling witnesses of the dreadful dramathat was preparing.  We had scarcely time to reflect; taking refuge inmy room, we looked at each other without speaking.  A deep stupor hadtaken hold of my mind:  thought seemed to stand still.  I was in thatpainful state of expectation preceding a dreadful report.  I waited, Ilistened, every sense was merged in that of hearing!  The speed of theNautilus was accelerated.  It was preparing to rush.  The whole shiptrembled.  Suddenly I screamed.  I felt the shock, but comparativelylight.  I felt the penetrating power of the steel spur.  I heardrattlings and scrapings.  But the Nautilus, carried along by itspropelling power, passed through the mass of the vessel like a needlethrough sailcloth!
I could stand it no longer.  Mad, out of my mind, I rushed from my roominto the saloon.  Captain Nemo was there, mute, gloomy, implacable; hewas looking through the port panel.  A large mass cast a shadow on thewater; and, that it might lose nothing of her agony, the Nautilus wasgoing down into the abyss with her.  Ten yards from me I saw the openshell, through which the water was rushing with the noise of thunder,then the double line of guns and the netting.  The bridge was coveredwith black, agitated shadows.
The water was rising.  The poor creatures were crowding the ratlines,clinging to the masts, struggling under the water.  It was a humanant-heap overtaken by the sea.  Paralysed, stiffened with anguish, myhair standing on end, with eyes wide open, panting, without breath, andwithout voice, I too was watching!  An irresistible attraction glued meto the glass!  Suddenly an explosion took place.  The compressed airblew up her decks, as if the magazines had caught fire.  Then theunfortunate vessel sank more rapidly.  Her topmast, laden with victims,now appeared; then her spars, bending under the weight of men; and,last of all, the top of her mainmast.  Then the dark mass disappeared,and with it the dead crew, drawn down by the strong eddy.
I turned to Captain Nemo.  That terrible avenger, a perfect archangelof hatred, was still looking.  When all was over, he turned to hisroom, opened the door, and entered.  I followed him with my eyes.  Onthe end wall beneath his heroes, I saw the portrait of a woman, stillyoung, and two little children.  Captain Nemo looked at them for somemoments, stretched his arms towards them, and, kneeling down, burstinto deep sobs.


CHAPTER XXII
THE LAST WORDS OF CAPTAIN NEMO
The panels had closed on this dreadful vision, but light had notreturned to the saloon:  all was silence and darkness within theNautilus.  At wonderful speed, a hundred feet beneath the water, it wasleaving this desolate spot.  Whither was it going?  To the north orsouth?  Where was the man flying to after such dreadful retaliation?  Ihad returned to my room, where Ned and Conseil had remained silentenough.  I felt an insurmountable horror for Captain Nemo.  Whatever hehad suffered at the hands of these men, he had no right to punish thus.He had made me, if not an accomplice, at least a witness of hisvengeance.  At eleven the electric light reappeared.  I passed into thesaloon.  It was deserted.  I consulted the different instruments.  TheNautilus was flying northward at the rate of twenty-five miles an hour,now on the surface, and now thirty feet below it.  On taking thebearings by the chart, I saw that we were passing the mouth of theManche, and that our course was hurrying us towards the northern seasat a frightful speed.  That night we had crossed two hundred leagues ofthe Atlantic.  The shadows fell, and the sea was covered with darknessuntil the rising of the moon.  I went to my room, but could not sleep.I was troubled with dreadful nightmare.  The horrible scene ofdestruction was continually before my eyes.  From that day, who couldtell into what part of the North Atlantic basin the Nautilus would takeus?  Still with unaccountable speed.  Still in the midst of thesenorthern fogs.  Would it touch at Spitzbergen, or on the shores of NovaZembla?  Should we explore those unknown seas, the White Sea, the Seaof Kara, the Gulf of Obi, the Archipelago of Liarrov, and the unknowncoast of Asia?  I could not say.  I could no longer judge of the timethat was passing.  The clocks had been stopped on board.  It seemed, asin polar countries, that night and day no longer followed their regularcourse.  I felt myself being drawn into that strange region where thefoundered imagination of Edgar Poe roamed at will.  Like the fabulousGordon Pym, at every moment I expected to see "that veiled humanfigure, of larger proportions than those of any inhabitant of theearth, thrown across the cataract which defends the approach to thepole." I estimated (though, perhaps, I may be mistaken)--I estimatedthis adventurous course of the Nautilus to have lasted fifteen ortwenty days.  And I know not how much longer it might have lasted, hadit not been for the catastrophe which ended this voyage.  Of CaptainNemo I saw nothing whatever now, nor of his second.  Not a man of thecrew was visible for an instant.  The Nautilus was almost incessantlyunder water.  When we came to the surface to renew the air, the panelsopened and shut mechanically.  There were no more marks on theplanisphere.  I knew not where we were.  And the Canadian, too, hisstrength and patience at an end, appeared no more.  Conseil could notdraw a word from him; and, fearing that, in a dreadful fit of madness,he might kill himself, watched him with constant devotion.  One morning(what date it was I could not say) I had fallen into a heavy sleeptowards the early hours, a sleep both painful and unhealthy, when Isuddenly awoke.  Ned Land was leaning over me, saying, in a low voice,"We are going to fly."  I sat up.
"When shall we go?"  I asked.
"To-night. All inspection on board the Nautilus seems to have ceased.All appear to be stupefied.  You will be ready, sir?"
"Yes; where are we?"
"In sight of land.  I took the reckoning this morning in thefog--twenty miles to the east."
"What country is it?"
"I do not know; but, whatever it is, we will take refuge there."
"Yes, Ned, yes.  We will fly to-night, even if the sea should swallowus up."
"The sea is bad, the wind violent, but twenty miles in that light boatof the Nautilus does not frighten me.  Unknown to the crew, I have beenable to procure food and some bottles of water."
"I will follow you."
"But," continued the Canadian, "if I am surprised, I will defendmyself; I will force them to kill me."
"We will die together, friend Ned."
I had made up my mind to all.  The Canadian left me.  I reached theplatform, on which I could with difficulty support myself against theshock of the waves.  The sky was threatening; but, as land was in thosethick brown shadows, we must fly.  I returned to the saloon, fearingand yet hoping to see Captain Nemo, wishing and yet not wishing to seehim.  What could I have said to him?  Could I hide the involuntaryhorror with which he inspired me?  No. It was better that I should notmeet him face to face; better to forget him.  And yet----  How longseemed that day, the last that I should pass in the Nautilus.  Iremained alone.  Ned Land and Conseil avoided speaking, for fear ofbetraying themselves.  At six I dined, but I was not hungry; I forcedmyself to eat in spite of my disgust, that I might not weaken myself.At half-past six Ned Land came to my room, saying, "We shall not seeeach other again before our departure.  At ten the moon will not berisen.  We will profit by the darkness.  Come to the boat; Conseil andI will wait for you."
The Canadian went out without giving me time to answer.  Wishing toverify the course of the Nautilus, I went to the saloon.  We wererunning N.N.E. at frightful speed, and more than fifty yards deep.  Icast a last look on these wonders of nature, on the riches of artheaped up in this museum, upon the unrivalled collection destined toperish at the bottom of the sea, with him who had formed it.  I wishedto fix an indelible impression of it in my mind.  I remained an hourthus, bathed in the light of that luminous ceiling, and passing inreview those treasures shining under their glasses.  Then I returned tomy room.
I dressed myself in strong sea clothing.  I collected my notes, placingthem carefully about me.  My heart beat loudly.  I could not check itspulsations.  Certainly my trouble and agitation would have betrayed meto Captain Nemo's eyes.  What was he doing at this moment?  I listenedat the door of his room.  I heard steps.  Captain Nemo was there.  Hehad not gone to rest.  At every moment I expected to see him appear,and ask me why I wished to fly.  I was constantly on the alert.  Myimagination magnified everything.  The impression became at last sopoignant that I asked myself if it would not be better to go to theCaptain's room, see him face to face, and brave him with look andgesture.
It was the inspiration of a madman; fortunately I resisted the desire,and stretched myself on my bed to quiet my bodily agitation.  My nerveswere somewhat calmer, but in my excited brain I saw over again all myexistence on board the Nautilus; every incident, either happy orunfortunate, which had happened since my disappearance from the AbrahamLincoln--the submarine hunt, the Torres Straits, the savages of Papua,the running ashore, the coral cemetery, the passage of Suez, the Islandof Santorin, the Cretan diver, Vigo Bay, Atlantis, the iceberg, theSouth Pole, the imprisonment in the ice, the fight among the poulps,the storm in the Gulf Stream, the Avenger, and the horrible scene ofthe vessel sunk with all her crew.  All these events passed before myeyes like scenes in a drama.  Then Captain Nemo seemed to growenormously, his features to assume superhuman proportions.  He was nolonger my equal, but a man of the waters, the genie of the sea.
It was then half-past nine.  I held my head between my hands to keep itfrom bursting.  I closed my eyes; I would not think any longer.  Therewas another half-hour to wait, another half-hour of a nightmare, whichmight drive me mad.
At that moment I heard the distant strains of the organ, a sad harmonyto an undefinable chant, the wail of a soul longing to break theseearthly bonds.  I listened with every sense, scarcely breathing;plunged, like Captain Nemo, in that musical ecstasy, which was drawinghim in spirit to the end of life.
Then a sudden thought terrified me.  Captain Nemo had left his room.He was in the saloon, which I must cross to fly.  There I should meethim for the last time.  He would see me, perhaps speak to me.  Agesture of his might destroy me, a single word chain me on board.
But ten was about to strike.  The moment had come for me to leave myroom, and join my companions.
I must not hesitate, even if Captain Nemo himself should rise beforeme.  I opened my door carefully; and even then, as it turned on itshinges, it seemed to me to make a dreadful noise.  Perhaps it onlyexisted in my own imagination.
I crept along the dark stairs of the Nautilus, stopping at each step tocheck the beating of my heart.  I reached the door of the saloon, andopened it gently.  It was plunged in profound darkness.  The strains ofthe organ sounded faintly.  Captain Nemo was there.  He did not see me.In the full light I do not think he would have noticed me, so entirelywas he absorbed in the ecstasy.
I crept along the carpet, avoiding the slightest sound which mightbetray my presence.  I was at least five minutes reaching the door, atthe opposite side, opening into the library.
I was going to open it, when a sigh from Captain Nemo nailed me to thespot.  I knew that he was rising.  I could even see him, for the lightfrom the library came through to the saloon.  He came towards mesilently, with his arms crossed, gliding like a spectre rather thanwalking.  His breast was swelling with sobs; and I heard him murmurthese words (the last which ever struck my ear):
"Almighty God! enough! enough!"
Was it a confession of remorse which thus escaped from this man'sconscience?
In desperation, I rushed through the library, mounted the centralstaircase, and, following the upper flight, reached the boat.  I creptthrough the opening, which had already admitted my two companions.
"Let us go! let us go!"  I exclaimed.
"Directly!" replied the Canadian.
The orifice in the plates of the Nautilus was first closed, andfastened down by means of a false key, with which Ned Land had providedhimself; the opening in the boat was also closed.  The Canadian beganto loosen the bolts which still held us to the submarine boat.
Suddenly a noise was heard.  Voices were answering each other loudly.What was the matter?  Had they discovered our flight?  I felt Ned Landslipping a dagger into my hand.
"Yes," I murmured, "we know how to die!"
The Canadian had stopped in his work.  But one word many timesrepeated, a dreadful word, revealed the cause of the agitationspreading on board the Nautilus.  It was not we the crew were lookingafter!
"The maelstrom! the maelstrom!"  Could a more dreadful word in a moredreadful situation have sounded in our ears!  We were then upon thedangerous coast of Norway.  Was the Nautilus being drawn into this gulfat the moment our boat was going to leave its sides?  We knew that atthe tide the pent-up waters between the islands of Ferroe and Loffodenrush with irresistible violence, forming a whirlpool from which novessel ever escapes.  From every point of the horizon enormous waveswere meeting, forming a gulf justly called the "Navel of the Ocean,"whose power of attraction extends to a distance of twelve miles.There, not only vessels, but whales are sacrificed, as well as whitebears from the northern regions.
It is thither that the Nautilus, voluntarily or involuntarily, had beenrun by the Captain.
It was describing a spiral, the circumference of which was lessening bydegrees, and the boat, which was still fastened to its side, wascarried along with giddy speed.  I felt that sickly giddiness whicharises from long-continued whirling round.
We were in dread.  Our horror was at its height, circulation hadstopped, all nervous influence was annihilated, and we were coveredwith cold sweat, like a sweat of agony!  And what noise around ourfrail bark!  What roarings repeated by the echo miles away!  What anuproar was that of the waters broken on the sharp rocks at the bottom,where the hardest bodies are crushed, and trees worn away, "with allthe fur rubbed off," according to the Norwegian phrase!
What a situation to be in!  We rocked frightfully.  The Nautilusdefended itself like a human being.  Its steel muscles cracked.Sometimes it seemed to stand upright, and we with it!
"We must hold on," said Ned, "and look after the bolts.  We may stillbe saved if we stick to the Nautilus."
He had not finished the words, when we heard a crashing noise, thebolts gave way, and the boat, torn from its groove, was hurled like astone from a sling into the midst of the whirlpool.
My head struck on a piece of iron, and with the violent shock I lostall consciousness.


CHAPTER XXIII
CONCLUSION
Thus ends the voyage under the seas.  What passed during thatnight--how the boat escaped from the eddies of the maelstrom--how NedLand, Conseil, and myself ever came out of the gulf, I cannot tell.
But when I returned to consciousness, I was lying in a fisherman's hut,on the Loffoden Isles.  My two companions, safe and sound, were near meholding my hands.  We embraced each other heartily.
At that moment we could not think of returning to France.  The means ofcommunication between the north of Norway and the south are rare.  AndI am therefore obliged to wait for the steamboat running monthly fromCape North.
And, among the worthy people who have so kindly received us, I revisemy record of these adventures once more.  Not a fact has been omitted,not a detail exaggerated.  It is a faithful narrative of thisincredible expedition in an element inaccessible to man, but to whichProgress will one day open a road.
Shall I be believed?  I do not know.  And it matters little, after all.What I now affirm is, that I have a right to speak of these seas, underwhich, in less than ten months, I have crossed 20,000 leagues in thatsubmarine tour of the world, which has revealed so many wonders.
But what has become of the Nautilus?  Did it resist the pressure of themaelstrom?  Does Captain Nemo still live?  And does he still followunder the ocean those frightful retaliations?  Or, did he stop afterthe last hecatomb?
Will the waves one day carry to him this manuscript containing thehistory of his life?  Shall I ever know the name of this man?  Will themissing vessel tell us by its nationality that of Captain Nemo?
I hope so.  And I also hope that his powerful vessel has conquered thesea at its most terrible gulf, and that the Nautilus has survived whereso many other vessels have been lost!  If it be so--if Captain Nemostill inhabits the ocean, his adopted country, may hatred be appeasedin that savage heart!  May the contemplation of so many wondersextinguish for ever the spirit of vengeance!  May the judge disappear,and the philosopher continue the peaceful exploration of the sea!  Ifhis destiny be strange, it is also sublime.  Have I not understood itmyself?  Have I not lived ten months of this unnatural life?  And tothe question asked by Ecclesiastes three thousand years ago, "Thatwhich is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out?" two menalone of all now living have the right to give an answer----
CAPTAIN NEMO AND MYSELF.