CONTENTS

CHAPTER I. Y-o-u-u Tom-Aunt Polly Decides Upon her Duty—Tom PracticesMusic—The Challenge—A Private Entrance
CHAPTER II. Strong Temptations—Strategic Movements—The InnocentsBeguiled
CHAPTER III. Tom as a General—Triumph and Reward—DismalFelicity—Commission and Omission
CHAPTER IV. Mental Acrobatics—Attending Sunday—School—TheSuperintendent—“Showing off”—Tom Lionized
CHAPTER V. A Useful Minister—In Church—The Climax
CHAPTER VI. Self-Examination—Dentistry—The Midnight Charm—Witches andDevils—Cautious Approaches—Happy Hours
CHAPTER VII. A Treaty Entered Into—Early Lessons—A Mistake Made
CHAPTER VIII. Tom Decides on his Course—Old Scenes Re-enacted
CHAPTER IX. A Solemn Situation—Grave Subjects Introduced—Injun JoeExplains
CHAPTER X. The Solemn Oath—Terror Brings Repentance—Mental Punishment
CHAPTER XI. Muff Potter Comes Himself—Tom’s Conscience at Work
CHAPTER XII. Tom Shows his Generosity—Aunt Polly Weakens
CHAPTER XIII. The Young Pirates—Going to the Rendezvous—The Camp—FireTalk
CHAPTER XIV. Camp-Life—A Sensation—Tom Steals Away from Camp
CHAPTER XV. Tom Reconnoiters—Learns the Situation—Reports at Camp
CHAPTER XVI. A Day’s Amusements—Tom Reveals a Secret—The Pirates take aLesson—A Night Surprise—An Indian War
CHAPTER XVII. Memories of the Lost Heroes—The Point in Tom’s Secret
CHAPTER XVIII. Tom’s Feelings Investigated—Wonderful Dream—BeckyThatcher Overshadowed—Tom Becomes Jealous—Black Revenge
CHAPTER XIX. Tom Tells the Truth
CHAPTER XX. Becky in a Dilemma—Tom’s Nobility Asserts Itself
CHAPTER XXI. Youthful Eloquence—Compositions by the Young Ladies—ALengthy Vision—The Boy’s Vengeance Satisfied
CHAPTER XXII. Tom’s Confidence Betrayed—Expects Signal Punishment
CHAPTER XXIII. Old Muff’s Friends—Muff Potter in Court—Muff PotterSaved
CHAPTER XXIV. Tom as the Village Hero—Days of Splendor and Nights ofHorror—Pursuit of Injun Joe
CHAPTER XXV. About Kings and Diamonds—Search for the Treasure—DeadPeople and Ghosts
CHAPTER XXVI. The Haunted House—Sleepy Ghosts—A Box of Gold—Bitter Luck
CHAPTER XXVII. Doubts to be Settled—The Young Detectives
CHAPTER XXVIII. An Attempt at No. Two—Huck Mounts Guard
CHAPTER XXIX. The Pic-nic—Huck on Injun Joe’s Track—The “Revenge” Job—Aid for the Widow
CHAPTER XXX. The Welshman Reports—Huck Under Fire—The Story Circulated—A New Sensation—Hope Giving Way to Despair
CHAPTER XXXI. An Exploring Expedition—Trouble Commences—Lost in theCave—Total Darkness—Found but not Saved
CHAPTER XXXII. Tom tells the Story of their Escape—Tom’s Enemy in SafeQuarters
CHAPTER XXXIII. The Fate of Injun Joe—Huck and Tom Compare Notes—An Expedition to the Cave—Protection Against Ghosts—“An Awful SnugPlace”—A Reception at the Widow Douglas’s
CHAPTER XXXIV. Springing a Secret—Mr. Jones’ Surprise a Failure
CHAPTER XXXV. A New Order of Things—Poor Huck—New Adventures Planned






PREFACE

Most of the adventures recorded in this book really occurred; one or twowere experiences of my own, the rest those of boys who were schoolmatesof mine. Huck Finn is drawn from life; Tom Sawyer also, but not from anindividual—he is a combination of the characteristics of three boys whomI knew, and therefore belongs to the composite order of architecture.
The odd superstitions touched upon were all prevalent among children andslaves in the West at the period of this story—that is to say, thirty orforty years ago.
Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys andgirls, I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account,for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of whatthey once were themselves, and of how they felt and thought and talked,and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in.
THE AUTHOR.
HARTFORD, 1876.



CHAPTER I

“TOM!”
No answer.
“TOM!”
No answer.
“What’s gone with that boy, I wonder? You TOM!”
No answer.
The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about theroom; then she put them up and looked out under them. She seldom ornever looked _through_ them for so small a thing as a boy; they wereher state pair, the pride of her heart, and were built for “style,” notservice—she could have seen through a pair of stove-lids just as well.She looked perplexed for a moment, and then said, not fiercely, butstill loud enough for the furniture to hear:
“Well, I lay if I get hold of you I’ll—”
She did not finish, for by this time she was bending down and punchingunder the bed with the broom, and so she needed breath to punctuate thepunches with. She resurrected nothing but the cat.
“I never did see the beat of that boy!”
She went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among thetomato vines and “jimpson” weeds that constituted the garden. No Tom. Soshe lifted up her voice at an angle calculated for distance and shouted:
“Y-o-u-u TOM!”
There was a slight noise behind her and she turned just in time to seizea small boy by the slack of his roundabout and arrest his flight.
“There! I might ’a’ thought of that closet. What you been doing inthere?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing! Look at your hands. And look at your mouth. What _is_ thattruck?”
“I don’t know, aunt.”
“Well, I know. It’s jam—that’s what it is. Forty times I’ve said if youdidn’t let that jam alone I’d skin you. Hand me that switch.”
The switch hovered in the air—the peril was desperate—
“My! Look behind you, aunt!”
The old lady whirled round, and snatched her skirts out of danger.The lad fled on the instant, scrambled up the high board-fence, anddisappeared over it.
His aunt Polly stood surprised a moment, and then broke into a gentlelaugh.
“Hang the boy, can’t I never learn anything? Ain’t he played me tricksenough like that for me to be looking out for him by this time? But oldfools is the biggest fools there is. Can’t learn an old dog new tricks,as the saying is. But my goodness, he never plays them alike, two days,and how is a body to know what’s coming? He ’pears to know just how longhe can torment me before I get my dander up, and he knows if he can makeout to put me off for a minute or make me laugh, it’s all down again andI can’t hit him a lick. I ain’t doing my duty by that boy, and that’sthe Lord’s truth, goodness knows. Spare the rod and spile the child,as the Good Book says. I’m a laying up sin and suffering for us both,I know. He’s full of the Old Scratch, but laws-a-me! he’s my owndead sister’s boy, poor thing, and I ain’t got the heart to lash him,somehow. Every time I let him off, my conscience does hurt me so, andevery time I hit him my old heart most breaks. Well-a-well, man that isborn of woman is of few days and full of trouble, as the Scripturesays, and I reckon it’s so. He’ll play hookey this evening, * and [*Southwestern for “afternoon”] I’ll just be obleeged to make him work,tomorrow, to punish him. It’s mighty hard to make him work Saturdays,when all the boys is having holiday, but he hates work more than hehates anything else, and I’ve _got_ to do some of my duty by him, orI’ll be the ruination of the child.”
Tom did play hookey, and he had a very good time. He got back homebarely in season to help Jim, the small colored boy, saw next-day’s woodand split the kindlings before supper—at least he was there in timeto tell his adventures to Jim while Jim did three-fourths of the work.Tom’s younger brother (or rather half-brother) Sid was already throughwith his part of the work (picking up chips), for he was a quiet boy,and had no adventurous, trouble-some ways.
While Tom was eating his supper, and stealing sugar as opportunityoffered, Aunt Polly asked him questions that were full of guile, andvery deep—for she wanted to trap him into damaging revealments. Likemany other simple-hearted souls, it was her pet vanity to believe shewas endowed with a talent for dark and mysterious diplomacy, and sheloved to contemplate her most transparent devices as marvels of lowcunning. Said she:
“Tom, it was middling warm in school, warn’t it?”
“Yes’m.”
“Powerful warm, warn’t it?”
“Yes’m.”
“Didn’t you want to go in a-swimming, Tom?”
A bit of a scare shot through Tom—a touch of uncomfortable suspicion. Hesearched Aunt Polly’s face, but it told him nothing. So he said:
“No’m—well, not very much.”
The old lady reached out her hand and felt Tom’s shirt, and said:
“But you ain’t too warm now, though.” And it flattered her to reflectthat she had discovered that the shirt was dry without anybody knowingthat that was what she had in her mind. But in spite of her, Tom knewwhere the wind lay, now. So he forestalled what might be the next move:
“Some of us pumped on our heads—mine’s damp yet. See?”
Aunt Polly was vexed to think she had overlooked that bit ofcircumstantial evidence, and missed a trick. Then she had a newinspiration:
“Tom, you didn’t have to undo your shirt collar where I sewed it, topump on your head, did you? Unbutton your jacket!”
The trouble vanished out of Tom’s face. He opened his jacket. His shirtcollar was securely sewed.
“Bother! Well, go ’long with you. I’d made sure you’d played hookeyand been a-swimming. But I forgive ye, Tom. I reckon you’re a kind of asinged cat, as the saying is—better’n you look. _This_ time.”
She was half sorry her sagacity had miscarried, and half glad that Tomhad stumbled into obedient conduct for once.
But Sidney said:
“Well, now, if I didn’t think you sewed his collar with white thread,but it’s black.”
“Why, I did sew it with white! Tom!”
But Tom did not wait for the rest. As he went out at the door he said:
“Siddy, I’ll lick you for that.”
In a safe place Tom examined two large needles which were thrust intothe lapels of his jacket, and had thread bound about them—one needlecarried white thread and the other black. He said:
“She’d never noticed if it hadn’t been for Sid. Confound it! sometimesshe sews it with white, and sometimes she sews it with black. I wish togee-miny she’d stick to one or t’other—I can’t keep the run of ’em. ButI bet you I’ll lam Sid for that. I’ll learn him!”
He was not the Model Boy of the village. He knew the model boy very wellthough—and loathed him.
Within two minutes, or even less, he had forgotten all his troubles. Notbecause his troubles were one whit less heavy and bitter to him than aman’s are to a man, but because a new and powerful interest borethem down and drove them out of his mind for the time—just as men’smisfortunes are forgotten in the excitement of new enterprises. This newinterest was a valued novelty in whistling, which he had just acquiredfrom a negro, and he was suffering to practise it un-disturbed. Itconsisted in a peculiar bird-like turn, a sort of liquid warble,produced by touching the tongue to the roof of the mouth at shortintervals in the midst of the music—the reader probably remembers how todo it, if he has ever been a boy. Diligence and attention soon gave himthe knack of it, and he strode down the street with his mouth full ofharmony and his soul full of gratitude. He felt much as an astronomerfeels who has discovered a new planet—no doubt, as far as strong, deep,unalloyed pleasure is concerned, the advantage was with the boy, not theastronomer.
The summer evenings were long. It was not dark, yet. Presently Tomchecked his whistle. A stranger was before him—a boy a shade largerthan himself. A new-comer of any age or either sex was an im-pressivecuriosity in the poor little shabby village of St. Petersburg. This boywas well dressed, too—well dressed on a week-day. This was simplyastounding. His cap was a dainty thing, his close-buttoned blue clothroundabout was new and natty, and so were his pantaloons. He had shoeson—and it was only Friday. He even wore a necktie, a bright bit ofribbon. He had a citified air about him that ate into Tom’s vitals. Themore Tom stared at the splendid marvel, the higher he turned up his noseat his finery and the shabbier and shabbier his own outfit seemed tohim to grow. Neither boy spoke. If one moved, the other moved—but onlysidewise, in a circle; they kept face to face and eye to eye all thetime. Finally Tom said:
“I can lick you!”
“I’d like to see you try it.”
“Well, I can do it.”
“No you can’t, either.”
“Yes I can.”
“No you can’t.”
“I can.”
“You can’t.”
“Can!”
“Can’t!”
An uncomfortable pause. Then Tom said:
“What’s your name?”
“’Tisn’t any of your business, maybe.”
“Well I ’low I’ll _make_ it my business.”
“Well why don’t you?”
“If you say much, I will.”
“Much—much—_much_. There now.”
“Oh, you think you’re mighty smart, _don’t_ you? I could lick you withone hand tied behind me, if I wanted to.”
“Well why don’t you _do_ it? You _say_ you can do it.”
“Well I _will_, if you fool with me.”
“Oh yes—I’ve seen whole families in the same fix.”
“Smarty! You think you’re _some_, now, _don’t_ you? Oh, what a hat!”
“You can lump that hat if you don’t like it. I dare you to knock itoff—and anybody that’ll take a dare will suck eggs.”
“You’re a liar!”
“You’re another.”
“You’re a fighting liar and dasn’t take it up.”
“Aw—take a walk!”
“Say—if you give me much more of your sass I’ll take and bounce a rockoff’n your head.”
“Oh, of _course_ you will.”
“Well I _will_.”
“Well why don’t you _do_ it then? What do you keep _saying_ you willfor? Why don’t you _do_ it? It’s because you’re afraid.”
“I _ain’t_ afraid.”
“You are.”
“I ain’t.”
“You are.”
Another pause, and more eying and sidling around each other. Presentlythey were shoulder to shoulder. Tom said:
“Get away from here!”
“Go away yourself!”
“I won’t.”
“I won’t either.”
So they stood, each with a foot placed at an angle as a brace, and bothshoving with might and main, and glowering at each other with hate. Butneither could get an advantage. After struggling till both were hot andflushed, each relaxed his strain with watchful caution, and Tom said:
“You’re a coward and a pup. I’ll tell my big brother on you, and he canthrash you with his little finger, and I’ll make him do it, too.”
“What do I care for your big brother? I’ve got a brother that’s biggerthan he is—and what’s more, he can throw him over that fence, too.” [Both brothers were imaginary.]
“That’s a lie.”
“_Your_ saying so don’t make it so.”
Tom drew a line in the dust with his big toe, and said:
“I dare you to step over that, and I’ll lick you till you can’t standup. Anybody that’ll take a dare will steal sheep.”
The new boy stepped over promptly, and said:
“Now you said you’d do it, now let’s see you do it.”
“Don’t you crowd me now; you better look out.”
“Well, you _said_ you’d do it—why don’t you do it?”
“By jingo! for two cents I _will_ do it.”
The new boy took two broad coppers out of his pocket and held them outwith derision. Tom struck them to the ground. In an instant both boyswere rolling and tumbling in the dirt, gripped together like cats; andfor the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other’s hair andclothes, punched and scratched each other’s nose, and covered themselveswith dust and glory. Presently the confusion took form, and through thefog of battle Tom appeared, seated astride the new boy, and pounding himwith his fists. “Holler ’nuff!” said he.
The boy only struggled to free himself. He was crying—mainly from rage.
“Holler ’nuff!”—and the pounding went on.
At last the stranger got out a smothered “’Nuff!” and Tom let him up andsaid:
“Now that’ll learn you. Better look out who you’re fooling with nexttime.”
The new boy went off brushing the dust from his clothes, sobbing,snuffling, and occasionally looking back and shaking his head andthreatening what he would do to Tom the “next time he caught him out.” To which Tom responded with jeers, and started off in high feather, andas soon as his back was turned the new boy snatched up a stone, threw itand hit him between the shoulders and then turned tail and ran likean antelope. Tom chased the traitor home, and thus found out where helived. He then held a position at the gate for some time, daring theenemy to come outside, but the enemy only made faces at him through thewindow and declined. At last the enemy’s mother appeared, and called Toma bad, vicious, vulgar child, and ordered him away. So he went away; buthe said he “’lowed” to “lay” for that boy.
He got home pretty late that night, and when he climbed cautiously inat the window, he uncovered an ambuscade, in the person of his aunt; andwhen she saw the state his clothes were in her resolution to turn hisSaturday holiday into captivity at hard labor became adamantine in itsfirmness.



CHAPTER II

SATURDAY morning was come, and all the summer world was bright andfresh, and brimming with life. There was a song in every heart; and ifthe heart was young the music issued at the lips. There was cheer inevery face and a spring in every step. The locust-trees were in bloomand the fragrance of the blossoms filled the air. Cardiff Hill, beyondthe village and above it, was green with vegetation and it lay just farenough away to seem a Delectable Land, dreamy, reposeful, and inviting.
Tom appeared on the sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and along-handled brush. He surveyed the fence, and all gladness left him anda deep melancholy settled down upon his spirit. Thirty yards of boardfence nine feet high. Life to him seemed hollow, and existence but aburden. Sighing, he dipped his brush and passed it along the topmostplank; repeated the operation; did it again; compared the insignificantwhitewashed streak with the far-reaching continent of unwhitewashedfence, and sat down on a tree-box discouraged. Jim came skipping out atthe gate with a tin pail, and singing Buffalo Gals. Bringing water fromthe town pump had always been hateful work in Tom’s eyes, before, butnow it did not strike him so. He remembered that there was company atthe pump. White, mulatto, and negro boys and girls were always therewaiting their turns, resting, trading playthings, quarrelling, fighting,skylarking. And he remembered that although the pump was only a hundredand fifty yards off, Jim never got back with a bucket of water under anhour—and even then somebody generally had to go after him. Tom said:
“Say, Jim, I’ll fetch the water if you’ll whitewash some.”
Jim shook his head and said:
“Can’t, Mars Tom. Ole missis, she tole me I got to go an’ git dis wateran’ not stop foolin’ roun’ wid anybody. She say she spec’ Mars Tom gwineto ax me to whitewash, an’ so she tole me go ’long an’ ’tend to my ownbusiness—she ’lowed _she’d_ ’tend to de whitewashin’.”
“Oh, never you mind what she said, Jim. That’s the way she always talks.Gimme the bucket—I won’t be gone only a a minute. _She_ won’t everknow.”
“Oh, I dasn’t, Mars Tom. Ole missis she’d take an’ tar de head off’n me.’Deed she would.”
“_She_! She never licks anybody—whacks ’em over the head with herthimble—and who cares for that, I’d like to know. She talks awful, buttalk don’t hurt—anyways it don’t if she don’t cry. Jim, I’ll give you amarvel. I’ll give you a white alley!”
Jim began to waver.
“White alley, Jim! And it’s a bully taw.”
“My! Dat’s a mighty gay marvel, I tell you! But Mars Tom I’s powerful’fraid ole missis—”
“And besides, if you will I’ll show you my sore toe.”
Jim was only human—this attraction was too much for him. He put downhis pail, took the white alley, and bent over the toe with absorbinginterest while the bandage was being unwound. In another moment hewas flying down the street with his pail and a tingling rear, Tom waswhitewashing with vigor, and Aunt Polly was retiring from the field witha slipper in her hand and triumph in her eye.
But Tom’s energy did not last. He began to think of the fun he hadplanned for this day, and his sorrows multiplied. Soon the free boyswould come tripping along on all sorts of delicious expeditions, andthey would make a world of fun of him for having to work—the verythought of it burnt him like fire. He got out his worldly wealth andexamined it—bits of toys, marbles, and trash; enough to buy an exchangeof _work_, maybe, but not half enough to buy so much as half an hourof pure freedom. So he returned his straitened means to his pocket, andgave up the idea of trying to buy the boys. At this dark and hopelessmoment an inspiration burst upon him! Nothing less than a great,magnificent inspiration.
He took up his brush and went tranquilly to work. Ben Rogers hove insight presently—the very boy, of all boys, whose ridicule he had beendreading. Ben’s gait was the hop-skip-and-jump—proof enough that hisheart was light and his anticipations high. He was eating an apple, andgiving a long, melodious whoop, at intervals, followed by a deep-tonedding-dong-dong, ding-dong-dong, for he was personating a steamboat. Ashe drew near, he slackened speed, took the middle of the street, leanedfar over to starboard and rounded to ponderously and with laborious pompand circumstance—for he was personating the Big Missouri, and consideredhimself to be drawing nine feet of water. He was boat and captain andengine-bells combined, so he had to imagine himself standing on his ownhurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them:
“Stop her, sir! Ting-a-ling-ling!” The headway ran almost out, and hedrew up slowly toward the sidewalk.
“Ship up to back! Ting-a-ling-ling!” His arms straightened and stiffeneddown his sides.
“Set her back on the stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow! ch-chow-wow!Chow!” His right hand, mean-time, describing stately circles—for it wasrepresenting a forty-foot wheel.
“Let her go back on the labboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ch-chow-chow!” The left hand began to describe circles.
“Stop the stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Stop the labboard! Come ahead onthe stabboard! Stop her! Let your outside turn over slow! Ting-a-ling-ling!Chow-ow-ow! Get out that head-line! _lively_ now! Come—out withyour spring-line—what’re you about there! Take a turn round that stumpwith the bight of it! Stand by that stage, now—let her go! Done withthe engines, sir! Ting-a-ling-ling! SH’T! S’H’T! SH’T!” (trying thegauge-cocks).
Tom went on whitewashing—paid no attention to the steamboat. Ben stareda moment and then said: “_Hi-Yi! You’re_ up a stump, ain’t you!”
No answer. Tom surveyed his last touch with the eye of an artist, thenhe gave his brush another gentle sweep and surveyed the result, asbefore. Ben ranged up alongside of him. Tom’s mouth watered for theapple, but he stuck to his work. Ben said:
“Hello, old chap, you got to work, hey?”
Tom wheeled suddenly and said:
“Why, it’s you, Ben! I warn’t noticing.”
“Say—I’m going in a-swimming, I am. Don’t you wish you could? But ofcourse you’d druther _work_—wouldn’t you? Course you would!”
Tom contemplated the boy a bit, and said:
“What do you call work?”
“Why, ain’t _that_ work?”
Tom resumed his whitewashing, and answered carelessly:
“Well, maybe it is, and maybe it ain’t. All I know, is, it suits TomSawyer.”
“Oh come, now, you don’t mean to let on that you _like_ it?”
The brush continued to move.
“Like it? Well, I don’t see why I oughtn’t to like it. Does a boy get achance to whitewash a fence every day?”
That put the thing in a new light. Ben stopped nibbling his apple.Tom swept his brush daintily back and forth—stepped back to note theeffect—added a touch here and there—criticised the effect again—Benwatching every move and getting more and more interested, more and moreabsorbed. Presently he said:
“Say, Tom, let _me_ whitewash a little.”
Tom considered, was about to consent; but he altered his mind:
“No—no—I reckon it wouldn’t hardly do, Ben. You see, Aunt Polly’s awfulparticular about this fence—right here on the street, you know—but if itwas the back fence I wouldn’t mind and _she_ wouldn’t. Yes, she’s awfulparticular about this fence; it’s got to be done very careful; I reckonthere ain’t one boy in a thousand, maybe two thousand, that can do itthe way it’s got to be done.”
“No—is that so? Oh come, now—lemme just try. Only just a little—I’d let_you_, if you was me, Tom.”
“Ben, I’d like to, honest injun; but Aunt Polly—well, Jim wanted to doit, but she wouldn’t let him; Sid wanted to do it, and she wouldn’t letSid. Now don’t you see how I’m fixed? If you was to tackle this fenceand anything was to happen to it—”
“Oh, shucks, I’ll be just as careful. Now lemme try. Say—I’ll give youthe core of my apple.”
“Well, here—No, Ben, now don’t. I’m afeard—”
“I’ll give you _all_ of it!”
Tom gave up the brush with reluctance in his face, but alacrity in hisheart. And while the late steamer Big Missouri worked and sweated in thesun, the retired artist sat on a barrel in the shade close by,dangled his legs, munched his apple, and planned the slaughter of moreinnocents. There was no lack of material; boys happened along everylittle while; they came to jeer, but remained to whitewash. By the timeBen was fagged out, Tom had traded the next chance to Billy Fisher fora kite, in good repair; and when he played out, Johnny Miller bought infor a dead rat and a string to swing it with—and so on, and so on, hourafter hour. And when the middle of the afternoon came, from being apoor poverty-stricken boy in the morning, Tom was literally rolling inwealth. He had besides the things before mentioned, twelve marbles, partof a jews-harp, a piece of blue bottle-glass to look through, a spoolcannon, a key that wouldn’t unlock anything, a fragment of chalk, aglass stopper of a decanter, a tin soldier, a couple of tadpoles,six fire-crackers, a kitten with only one eye, a brass door-knob, adog-collar—but no dog—the handle of a knife, four pieces of orange-peel,and a dilapidated old window sash.
He had had a nice, good, idle time all the while—plenty of company—andthe fence had three coats of whitewash on it! If he hadn’t run out ofwhitewash he would have bankrupted every boy in the village.
Tom said to himself that it was not such a hollow world, after all. Hehad discovered a great law of human action, without knowing it—namely,that in order to make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only necessaryto make the thing difficult to attain. If he had been a great andwise philosopher, like the writer of this book, he would now havecomprehended that Work consists of whatever a body is _obliged_ to do,and that Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do. Andthis would help him to understand why constructing artificial flowers orperforming on a tread-mill is work, while rolling ten-pins or climbingMont Blanc is only amusement. There are wealthy gentlemen in Englandwho drive four-horse passenger-coaches twenty or thirty miles on adaily line, in the summer, because the privilege costs them considerablemoney; but if they were offered wages for the service, that would turnit into work and then they would resign.
The boy mused awhile over the substantial change which had taken placein his worldly circumstances, and then wended toward headquarters toreport.



CHAPTER III

TOM presented himself before Aunt Polly, who was sitting by anopen window in a pleasant rearward apartment, which was bedroom,breakfast-room, dining-room, and library, combined. The balmy summerair, the restful quiet, the odor of the flowers, and the drowsingmurmur of the bees had had their effect, and she was nodding over herknitting—for she had no company but the cat, and it was asleep in herlap. Her spectacles were propped up on her gray head for safety. She hadthought that of course Tom had deserted long ago, and she wondered atseeing him place himself in her power again in this intrepid way. Hesaid: “Mayn’t I go and play now, aunt?”
“What, a’ready? How much have you done?”
“It’s all done, aunt.”
“Tom, don’t lie to me—I can’t bear it.”
“I ain’t, aunt; it _is_ all done.”
Aunt Polly placed small trust in such evidence. She went out to see forherself; and she would have been content to find twenty per cent. ofTom’s statement true. When she found the entire fence white-washed, andnot only whitewashed but elaborately coated and recoated, and even astreak added to the ground, her astonishment was almost unspeakable. Shesaid:
“Well, I never! There’s no getting round it, you can work when you’re amind to, Tom.” And then she diluted the compliment by adding, “But it’spowerful seldom you’re a mind to, I’m bound to say. Well, go ’long andplay; but mind you get back some time in a week, or I’ll tan you.”
She was so overcome by the splendor of his achievement that she tookhim into the closet and selected a choice apple and delivered it to him,along with an improving lecture upon the added value and flavor a treattook to itself when it came without sin through virtuous effort.And while she closed with a happy Scriptural flourish, he “hooked” adoughnut.
Then he skipped out, and saw Sid just starting up the outside stairwaythat led to the back rooms on the second floor. Clods were handy andthe air was full of them in a twinkling. They raged around Sid like ahail-storm; and before Aunt Polly could collect her surprised facultiesand sally to the rescue, six or seven clods had taken personal effect,and Tom was over the fence and gone. There was a gate, but as a generalthing he was too crowded for time to make use of it. His soul was atpeace, now that he had settled with Sid for calling attention to hisblack thread and getting him into trouble.
Tom skirted the block, and came round into a muddy alley that led by theback of his aunt’s cow-stable. He presently got safely beyond the reachof capture and punishment, and hastened toward the public square of thevillage, where two “military” companies of boys had met for conflict,according to previous appointment. Tom was General of one of thesearmies, Joe Harper (a bosom friend) General of the other. These twogreat commanders did not condescend to fight in person—that being bettersuited to the still smaller fry—but sat together on an eminenceand conducted the field operations by orders delivered throughaides-de-camp. Tom’s army won a great victory, after a long andhard-fought battle. Then the dead were counted, prisoners exchanged,the terms of the next disagreement agreed upon, and the day for thenecessary battle appointed; after which the armies fell into line andmarched away, and Tom turned homeward alone.
As he was passing by the house where Jeff Thatcher lived, he saw a newgirl in the garden—a lovely little blue-eyed creature with yellowhair plaited into two long-tails, white summer frock and embroideredpan-talettes. The fresh-crowned hero fell without firing a shot. Acertain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even amemory of herself behind. He had thought he loved her to distraction;he had regarded his passion as adoration; and behold it was only a poorlittle evanescent partiality. He had been months winning her; she hadconfessed hardly a week ago; he had been the happiest and the proudestboy in the world only seven short days, and here in one instant of timeshe had gone out of his heart like a casual stranger whose visit isdone.
He worshipped this new angel with furtive eye, till he saw that she haddiscovered him; then he pretended he did not know she was present, andbegan to “show off” in all sorts of absurd boyish ways, in order to winher admiration. He kept up this grotesque foolishness for some time;but by-and-by, while he was in the midst of some dangerous gymnasticperformances, he glanced aside and saw that the little girl was wendingher way toward the house. Tom came up to the fence and leaned on it,grieving, and hoping she would tarry yet awhile longer. She halted amoment on the steps and then moved toward the door. Tom heaved a greatsigh as she put her foot on the threshold. But his face lit up,right away, for she tossed a pansy over the fence a moment before shedisappeared.
The boy ran around and stopped within a foot or two of the flower, andthen shaded his eyes with his hand and began to look down street asif he had discovered something of interest going on in that direction.Presently he picked up a straw and began trying to balance it on hisnose, with his head tilted far back; and as he moved from side to side,in his efforts, he edged nearer and nearer toward the pansy; finally hisbare foot rested upon it, his pliant toes closed upon it, and he hoppedaway with the treasure and disappeared round the corner. But only for aminute—only while he could button the flower inside his jacket, nexthis heart—or next his stomach, possibly, for he was not much posted inanatomy, and not hypercritical, anyway.
He returned, now, and hung about the fence till nightfall, “showingoff,” as before; but the girl never exhibited herself again, though Tomcomforted himself a little with the hope that she had been near somewindow, meantime, and been aware of his attentions. Finally he strodehome reluctantly, with his poor head full of visions.
All through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered “whathad got into the child.” He took a good scolding about clodding Sid, anddid not seem to mind it in the least. He tried to steal sugar under hisaunt’s very nose, and got his knuckles rapped for it. He said:
“Aunt, you don’t whack Sid when he takes it.”
“Well, Sid don’t torment a body the way you do. You’d be always intothat sugar if I warn’t watching you.”
Presently she stepped into the kitchen, and Sid, happy in his immunity,reached for the sugar-bowl—a sort of glorying over Tom which waswellnigh unbearable. But Sid’s fingers slipped and the bowl dropped andbroke. Tom was in ecstasies. In such ecstasies that he even controlledhis tongue and was silent. He said to himself that he would not speak aword, even when his aunt came in, but would sit perfectly still till sheasked who did the mischief; and then he would tell, and there would benothing so good in the world as to see that pet model “catch it.” He wasso brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold himself when the oldlady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrathfrom over her spectacles. He said to himself, “Now it’s coming!” And thenext instant he was sprawling on the floor! The potent palm was upliftedto strike again when Tom cried out:
“Hold on, now, what ’er you belting _me_ for?—Sid broke it!”
Aunt Polly paused, perplexed, and Tom looked for healing pity. But whenshe got her tongue again, she only said:
“Umf! Well, you didn’t get a lick amiss, I reckon. You been into someother audacious mischief when I wasn’t around, like enough.”
Then her conscience reproached her, and she yearned to say somethingkind and loving; but she judged that this would be construed into aconfession that she had been in the wrong, and discipline forbade that.So she kept silence, and went about her affairs with a troubled heart.Tom sulked in a corner and exalted his woes. He knew that in her hearthis aunt was on her knees to him, and he was morosely gratified by theconsciousness of it. He would hang out no signals, he would take noticeof none. He knew that a yearning glance fell upon him, now and then,through a film of tears, but he refused recognition of it. He picturedhimself lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him beseechingone little forgiving word, but he would turn his face to the wall, anddie with that word unsaid. Ah, how would she feel then? And he picturedhimself brought home from the river, dead, with his curls all wet, andhis sore heart at rest. How she would throw herself upon him, and howher tears would fall like rain, and her lips pray God to give her backher boy and she would never, never abuse him any more! But he wouldlie there cold and white and make no sign—a poor little sufferer, whosegriefs were at an end. He so worked upon his feelings with the pathos ofthese dreams, that he had to keep swallowing, he was so like to choke;and his eyes swam in a blur of water, which overflowed when he winked,and ran down and trickled from the end of his nose. And such a luxury tohim was this petting of his sorrows, that he could not bear to have anyworldly cheeriness or any grating delight intrude upon it; it was toosacred for such contact; and so, presently, when his cousin Mary dancedin, all alive with the joy of seeing home again after an age-long visitof one week to the country, he got up and moved in clouds and darknessout at one door as she brought song and sunshine in at the other.
He wandered far from the accustomed haunts of boys, and sought desolateplaces that were in harmony with his spirit. A log raft in the riverinvited him, and he seated himself on its outer edge and contemplatedthe dreary vastness of the stream, wishing, the while, that he couldonly be drowned, all at once and unconsciously, without undergoing theuncomfortable routine devised by nature. Then he thought of his flower.He got it out, rumpled and wilted, and it mightily increased his dismalfelicity. He wondered if she would pity him if she knew? Would shecry, and wish that she had a right to put her arms around his neck andcomfort him? Or would she turn coldly away like all the hollow world?This picture brought such an agony of pleasurable suffering that heworked it over and over again in his mind and set it up in new andvaried lights, till he wore it threadbare. At last he rose up sighingand departed in the darkness.
About half-past nine or ten o’clock he came along the deserted street towhere the Adored Unknown lived; he paused a moment; no sound fell uponhis listening ear; a candle was casting a dull glow upon the curtainof a second-story window. Was the sacred presence there? He climbed thefence, threaded his stealthy way through the plants, till he stood underthat window; he looked up at it long, and with emotion; then he laid himdown on the ground under it, disposing himself upon his back, with hishands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor wilted flower.And thus he would die—out in the cold world, with no shelter over hishomeless head, no friendly hand to wipe the death-damps from his brow,no loving face to bend pityingly over him when the great agony came. Andthus _she_ would see him when she looked out upon the glad morning, andoh! would she drop one little tear upon his poor, lifeless form, wouldshe heave one little sigh to see a bright young life so rudely blighted,so untimely cut down?
The window went up, a maid-servant’s discordant voice profaned the holycalm, and a deluge of water drenched the prone martyr’s remains!
The strangling hero sprang up with a relieving snort. There was a whizas of a missile in the air, mingled with the murmur of a curse, a soundas of shivering glass followed, and a small, vague form went over thefence and shot away in the gloom.
Not long after, as Tom, all undressed for bed, was surveying hisdrenched garments by the light of a tallow dip, Sid woke up; but if hehad any dim idea of making any “references to allusions,” he thoughtbetter of it and held his peace, for there was danger in Tom’s eye.
Tom turned in without the added vexation of prayers, and Sid made mentalnote of the omission.



CHAPTER IV

THE sun rose upon a tranquil world, and beamed down upon the peacefulvillage like a benediction. Breakfast over, Aunt Polly had familyworship: it began with a prayer built from the ground up of solidcourses of Scriptural quotations, welded together with a thin mortar oforiginality; and from the summit of this she delivered a grim chapter ofthe Mosaic Law, as from Sinai.
Then Tom girded up his loins, so to speak, and went to work to “gethis verses.” Sid had learned his lesson days before. Tom bent all hisenergies to the memorizing of five verses, and he chose part of theSermon on the Mount, because he could find no verses that were shorter.At the end of half an hour Tom had a vague general idea of his lesson,but no more, for his mind was traversing the whole field of humanthought, and his hands were busy with distracting recreations. Mary tookhis book to hear him recite, and he tried to find his way through thefog:
“Blessed are the—a—a—”
“Poor”—
“Yes—poor; blessed are the poor—a—a—”
“In spirit—”
“In spirit; blessed are the poor in spirit, for they—they—”
“_Theirs_—”
“For _theirs_. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdomof heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they—they—”
“Sh—”
“For they—a—”
“S, H, A—”
“For they S, H—Oh, I don’t know what it is!”
“_Shall_!”
“Oh, _shall_! for they shall—for they shall—a—a—shallmourn—a—a—blessed are they that shall—they that—a—they thatshall mourn, for they shall—a—shall _what_? Why don’t you tell me,Mary?—what do you want to be so mean for?”
“Oh, Tom, you poor thick-headed thing, I’m not teasing you. I wouldn’tdo that. You must go and learn it again. Don’t you be discouraged, Tom,you’ll manage it—and if you do, I’ll give you something ever so nice.There, now, that’s a good boy.”
“All right! What is it, Mary, tell me what it is.”
“Never you mind, Tom. You know if I say it’s nice, it is nice.”
“You bet you that’s so, Mary. All right, I’ll tackle it again.”
And he did “tackle it again”—and under the double pressure of curiosityand prospective gain he did it with such spirit that he accomplished ashining success. Mary gave him a brand-new “Barlow” knife worth twelveand a half cents; and the convulsion of delight that swept his systemshook him to his foundations. True, the knife would not cut anything,but it was a “sure-enough” Barlow, and there was inconceivable grandeurin that—though where the Western boys ever got the idea that such aweapon could possibly be counterfeited to its injury is an imposingmystery and will always remain so, perhaps. Tom contrived to scarify thecupboard with it, and was arranging to begin on the bureau, when he wascalled off to dress for Sunday-school.
Mary gave him a tin basin of water and a piece of soap, and he wentoutside the door and set the basin on a little bench there; then hedipped the soap in the water and laid it down; turned up his sleeves;poured out the water on the ground, gently, and then entered the kitchenand began to wipe his face diligently on the towel behind the door. ButMary removed the towel and said:
“Now ain’t you ashamed, Tom. You mustn’t be so bad. Water won’t hurtyou.”
Tom was a trifle disconcerted. The basin was refilled, and this time hestood over it a little while, gathering resolution; took in a big breathand began. When he entered the kitchen presently, with both eyes shutand groping for the towel with his hands, an honorable testimony ofsuds and water was dripping from his face. But when he emerged fromthe towel, he was not yet satisfactory, for the clean territory stoppedshort at his chin and his jaws, like a mask; below and beyond this linethere was a dark expanse of unirrigated soil that spread downward infront and backward around his neck. Mary took him in hand, and when shewas done with him he was a man and a brother, without distinction ofcolor, and his saturated hair was neatly brushed, and its short curlswrought into a dainty and symmetrical general effect. [He privatelysmoothed out the curls, with labor and difficulty, and plastered hishair close down to his head; for he held curls to be effeminate, and hisown filled his life with bitterness.] Then Mary got out a suit of hisclothing that had been used only on Sundays during two years—they weresimply called his “other clothes”—and so by that we know the size of hiswardrobe. The girl “put him to rights” after he had dressed himself;she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin, turned his vast shirtcollar down over his shoulders, brushed him off and crowned him withhis speckled straw hat. He now looked exceedingly improved anduncomfortable. He was fully as uncomfortable as he looked; for therewas a restraint about whole clothes and cleanliness that galled him. Hehoped that Mary would forget his shoes, but the hope was blighted; shecoated them thoroughly with tallow, as was the custom, and broughtthem out. He lost his temper and said he was always being made to doeverything he didn’t want to do. But Mary said, persuasively:
“Please, Tom—that’s a good boy.”
So he got into the shoes snarling. Mary was soon ready, and the threechildren set out for Sunday-school—a place that Tom hated with his wholeheart; but Sid and Mary were fond of it.
Sabbath-school hours were from nine to half-past ten; and then churchservice. Two of the children always remained for the sermon voluntarily,and the other always remained too—for stronger reasons. The church’shigh-backed, uncushioned pews would seat about three hundred persons;the edifice was but a small, plain affair, with a sort of pine boardtree-box on top of it for a steeple. At the door Tom dropped back a stepand accosted a Sunday-dressed comrade:
“Say, Billy, got a yaller ticket?”
“Yes.”
“What’ll you take for her?”
“What’ll you give?”
“Piece of lickrish and a fish-hook.”
“Less see ’em.”
Tom exhibited. They were satisfactory, and the property changed hands.Then Tom traded a couple of white alleys for three red tickets, and somesmall trifle or other for a couple of blue ones. He waylaid otherboys as they came, and went on buying tickets of various colors tenor fifteen minutes longer. He entered the church, now, with a swarmof clean and noisy boys and girls, proceeded to his seat and starteda quarrel with the first boy that came handy. The teacher, a grave,elderly man, interfered; then turned his back a moment and Tom pulled aboy’s hair in the next bench, and was absorbed in his book when the boyturned around; stuck a pin in another boy, presently, in order to hearhim say “Ouch!” and got a new reprimand from his teacher. Tom’s wholeclass were of a pattern—restless, noisy, and troublesome. When they cameto recite their lessons, not one of them knew his verses perfectly, buthad to be prompted all along. However, they worried through, and eachgot his reward—in small blue tickets, each with a passage of Scriptureon it; each blue ticket was pay for two verses of the recitation. Tenblue tickets equalled a red one, and could be exchanged for it; ten redtickets equalled a yellow one; for ten yellow tickets the superintendentgave a very plainly bound Bible (worth forty cents in those easytimes) to the pupil. How many of my readers would have the industry andapplication to memorize two thousand verses, even for a Dore Bible? Andyet Mary had acquired two Bibles in this way—it was the patient work oftwo years—and a boy of German parentage had won four or five. He oncerecited three thousand verses without stopping; but the strain upon hismental faculties was too great, and he was little better than an idiotfrom that day forth—a grievous misfortune for the school, for on greatoccasions, before company, the superintendent (as Tom expressed it)had always made this boy come out and “spread himself.” Only the olderpupils managed to keep their tickets and stick to their tedious worklong enough to get a Bible, and so the delivery of one of these prizeswas a rare and noteworthy circumstance; the successful pupil was sogreat and conspicuous for that day that on the spot every scholar’sheart was fired with a fresh ambition that often lasted a coupleof weeks. It is possible that Tom’s mental stomach had never reallyhungered for one of those prizes, but unquestionably his entire beinghad for many a day longed for the glory and the eclat that came with it.
In due course the superintendent stood up in front of the pulpit, witha closed hymn-book in his hand and his forefinger inserted between itsleaves, and commanded attention. When a Sunday-school superintendentmakes his customary little speech, a hymn-book in the hand is asnecessary as is the inevitable sheet of music in the hand of a singerwho stands forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert—thoughwhy, is a mystery: for neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of musicis ever referred to by the sufferer. This superintendent was a slimcreature of thirty-five, with a sandy goatee and short sandy hair; hewore a stiff standing-collar whose upper edge almost reached his earsand whose sharp points curved forward abreast the corners of his mouth—afence that compelled a straight lookout ahead, and a turning of thewhole body when a side view was required; his chin was propped on aspreading cravat which was as broad and as long as a bank-note, and hadfringed ends; his boot toes were turned sharply up, in the fashionof the day, like sleigh-runners—an effect patiently and laboriouslyproduced by the young men by sitting with their toes pressed against awall for hours together. Mr. Walters was very earnest of mien, and verysincere and honest at heart; and he held sacred things and placesin such reverence, and so separated them from worldly matters, thatunconsciously to himself his Sunday-school voice had acquired a peculiarintonation which was wholly absent on week-days. He began after thisfashion:
“Now, children, I want you all to sit up just as straight and pretty asyou can and give me all your attention for a minute or two. There—thatis it. That is the way good little boys and girls should do. I see onelittle girl who is looking out of the window—I am afraid she thinks Iam out there somewhere—perhaps up in one of the trees making a speechto the little birds. [Applausive titter.] I want to tell you how good itmakes me feel to see so many bright, clean little faces assembled in aplace like this, learning to do right and be good.” And so forth and soon. It is not necessary to set down the rest of the oration. It was of apattern which does not vary, and so it is familiar to us all.
The latter third of the speech was marred by the resumption of fightsand other recreations among certain of the bad boys, and by fidgetingsand whisperings that extended far and wide, washing even to the bases ofisolated and incorruptible rocks like Sid and Mary. But now every soundceased suddenly, with the subsidence of Mr. Walters’ voice, and theconclusion of the speech was received with a burst of silent gratitude.
A good part of the whispering had been occasioned by an event which wasmore or less rare—the entrance of visitors: lawyer Thatcher, accompaniedby a very feeble and aged man; a fine, portly, middle-aged gentlemanwith iron-gray hair; and a dignified lady who was doubtless the latter’swife. The lady was leading a child. Tom had been restless and full ofchafings and repinings; conscience-smitten, too—he could not meet AmyLawrence’s eye, he could not brook her loving gaze. But when he saw thissmall newcomer his soul was all ablaze with bliss in a moment. The nextmoment he was “showing off” with all his might—cuffing boys, pullinghair, making faces—in a word, using every art that seemed likely tofascinate a girl and win her applause. His exaltation had but onealloy—the memory of his humiliation in this angel’s garden—and thatrecord in sand was fast washing out, under the waves of happiness thatwere sweeping over it now.
The visitors were given the highest seat of honor, and as soon as Mr.Walters’ speech was finished, he introduced them to the school. Themiddle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage—no less a onethan the county judge—altogether the most august creation these childrenhad ever looked upon—and they wondered what kind of material he was madeof—and they half wanted to hear him roar, and were half afraid he might,too. He was from Constantinople, twelve miles away—so he had travelled,and seen the world—these very eyes had looked upon the countycourt-house—which was said to have a tin roof. The awe which thesereflections inspired was attested by the impressive silence and theranks of staring eyes. This was the great Judge Thatcher, brother oftheir own lawyer. Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward, to be familiarwith the great man and be envied by the school. It would have been musicto his soul to hear the whisperings:
“Look at him, Jim! He’s a going up there. Say—look! he’s a going toshake hands with him—he _is_ shaking hands with him! By jings, don’t youwish you was Jeff?”
Mr. Walters fell to “showing off,” with all sorts of official bustlingsand activities, giving orders, delivering judgments, dischargingdirections here, there, everywhere that he could find a target. Thelibrarian “showed off”—running hither and thither with his arms full ofbooks and making a deal of the splutter and fuss that insect authoritydelights in. The young lady teachers “showed off”—bending sweetly overpupils that were lately being boxed, lifting pretty warning fingersat bad little boys and patting good ones lovingly. The young gentlementeachers “showed off” with small scoldings and other little displays ofauthority and fine attention to discipline—and most of the teachers, ofboth sexes, found business up at the library, by the pulpit; and it wasbusiness that frequently had to be done over again two or three times(with much seeming vexation). The little girls “showed off” in variousways, and the little boys “showed off” with such diligence that the airwas thick with paper wads and the murmur of scufflings. And above itall the great man sat and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon allthe house, and warmed himself in the sun of his own grandeur—for he was“showing off,” too.
There was only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters’ ecstasy complete,and that was a chance to deliver a Bible-prize and exhibit a prodigy.Several pupils had a few yellow tickets, but none had enough—he had beenaround among the star pupils inquiring. He would have given worlds, now,to have that German lad back again with a sound mind.
And now at this moment, when hope was dead, Tom Sawyer came forward withnine yellow tickets, nine red tickets, and ten blue ones, and demandeda Bible. This was a thunderbolt out of a clear sky. Walters was notexpecting an application from this source for the next ten years. Butthere was no getting around it—here were the certified checks, and theywere good for their face. Tom was therefore elevated to a place withthe Judge and the other elect, and the great news was announced fromheadquarters. It was the most stunning surprise of the decade, andso profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to thejudicial one’s altitude, and the school had two marvels to gaze uponin place of one. The boys were all eaten up with envy—but those thatsuffered the bitterest pangs were those who perceived too late that theythemselves had contributed to this hated splendor by trading tickets toTom for the wealth he had amassed in selling whitewashing privileges.These despised themselves, as being the dupes of a wily fraud, aguileful snake in the grass.
The prize was delivered to Tom with as much effusion as thesuperintendent could pump up under the circumstances; but it lackedsomewhat of the true gush, for the poor fellow’s instinct taught himthat there was a mystery here that could not well bear the light,perhaps; it was simply preposterous that this boy had warehoused twothousand sheaves of Scriptural wisdom on his premises—a dozen wouldstrain his capacity, without a doubt.
Amy Lawrence was proud and glad, and she tried to make Tom see it inher face—but he wouldn’t look. She wondered; then she was just a graintroubled; next a dim suspicion came and went—came again; she watched;a furtive glance told her worlds—and then her heart broke, and she wasjealous, and angry, and the tears came and she hated everybody. Tom mostof all (she thought).
Tom was introduced to the Judge; but his tongue was tied, his breathwould hardly come, his heart quaked—partly because of the awfulgreatness of the man, but mainly because he was her parent. He wouldhave liked to fall down and worship him, if it were in the dark. TheJudge put his hand on Tom’s head and called him a fine little man, andasked him what his name was. The boy stammered, gasped, and got it out:
“Tom.”
“Oh, no, not Tom—it is—”
“Thomas.”
“Ah, that’s it. I thought there was more to it, maybe. That’s very well.But you’ve another one I daresay, and you’ll tell it to me, won’t you?”
“Tell the gentleman your other name, Thomas,” said Walters, “and saysir. You mustn’t forget your manners.”
“Thomas Sawyer—sir.”
“That’s it! That’s a good boy. Fine boy. Fine, manly little fellow. Twothousand verses is a great many—very, very great many. And you never canbe sorry for the trouble you took to learn them; for knowledge is worthmore than anything there is in the world; it’s what makes great menand good men; you’ll be a great man and a good man yourself, someday, Thomas, and then you’ll look back and say, It’s all owing to theprecious Sunday-school privileges of my boyhood—it’s all owing tomy dear teachers that taught me to learn—it’s all owing to the goodsuperintendent, who encouraged me, and watched over me, and gave me abeautiful Bible—a splendid elegant Bible—to keep and have it all for myown, always—it’s all owing to right bringing up! That is what you willsay, Thomas—and you wouldn’t take any money for those two thousandverses—no indeed you wouldn’t. And now you wouldn’t mind telling me andthis lady some of the things you’ve learned—no, I know you wouldn’t—forwe are proud of little boys that learn. Now, no doubt you know the namesof all the twelve disciples. Won’t you tell us the names of the firsttwo that were appointed?”
Tom was tugging at a button-hole and looking sheepish. He blushed,now, and his eyes fell. Mr. Walters’ heart sank within him. He saidto himself, it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplestquestion—why _did_ the Judge ask him? Yet he felt obliged to speak upand say:
“Answer the gentleman, Thomas—don’t be afraid.”
Tom still hung fire.
“Now I know you’ll tell me,” said the lady. “The names of the first twodisciples were—”
“_David And Goliah!_”
Let us draw the curtain of charity over the rest of the scene.



CHAPTER V

ABOUT half-past ten the cracked bell of the small church began to ring,and presently the people began to gather for the morning sermon. TheSunday-school children distributed themselves about the house andoccupied pews with their parents, so as to be under supervision. AuntPolly came, and Tom and Sid and Mary sat with her—Tom being placed nextthe aisle, in order that he might be as far away from the open windowand the seductive outside summer scenes as possible. The crowd filed upthe aisles: the aged and needy postmaster, who had seen better days;the mayor and his wife—for they had a mayor there, among otherunnecessaries; the justice of the peace; the widow Douglas, fair,smart, and forty, a generous, good-hearted soul and well-to-do, her hillmansion the only palace in the town, and the most hospitable and muchthe most lavish in the matter of festivities that St. Petersburg couldboast; the bent and venerable Major and Mrs. Ward; lawyer Riverson, thenew notable from a distance; next the belle of the village, followed bya troop of lawn-clad and ribbon-decked young heart-breakers; then allthe young clerks in town in a body—for they had stood in the vestibulesucking their cane-heads, a circling wall of oiled and simperingadmirers, till the last girl had run their gantlet; and last of all camethe Model Boy, Willie Mufferson, taking as heedful care of his mother asif she were cut glass. He always brought his mother to church, and wasthe pride of all the matrons. The boys all hated him, he was sogood. And besides, he had been “thrown up to them” so much. Hiswhite handkerchief was hanging out of his pocket behind, as usual onSundays—accidentally. Tom had no handkerchief, and he looked upon boyswho had as snobs.
The congregation being fully assembled, now, the bell rang once more,to warn laggards and stragglers, and then a solemn hush fell upon thechurch which was only broken by the tittering and whispering of thechoir in the gallery. The choir always tittered and whispered allthrough service. There was once a church choir that was not ill-bred,but I have forgotten where it was, now. It was a great many years ago,and I can scarcely remember anything about it, but I think it was insome foreign country.
The minister gave out the hymn, and read it through with a relish, in apeculiar style which was much admired in that part of the country. Hisvoice began on a medium key and climbed steadily up till it reached acertain point, where it bore with strong emphasis upon the topmost wordand then plunged down as if from a spring-board:
Shall I be car-ri-ed toe the skies, on flow’ry _beds_ of ease,
Whilst others fight to win the prize, and sail thro’ _blood_-y seas?
He was regarded as a wonderful reader. At church “sociables” he wasalways called upon to read poetry; and when he was through, the ladieswould lift up their hands and let them fall helplessly in their laps,and “wall” their eyes, and shake their heads, as much as to say, “Wordscannot express it; it is too beautiful, TOO beautiful for this mortalearth.”
After the hymn had been sung, the Rev. Mr. Sprague turned himself intoa bulletin-board, and read off “notices” of meetings and societies andthings till it seemed that the list would stretch out to the crack ofdoom—a queer custom which is still kept up in America, even in cities,away here in this age of abundant newspapers. Often, the less there isto justify a traditional custom, the harder it is to get rid of it.
And now the minister prayed. A good, generous prayer it was, and wentinto details: it pleaded for the church, and the little children of thechurch; for the other churches of the village; for the village itself;for the county; for the State; for the State officers; for the UnitedStates; for the churches of the United States; for Congress; for thePresident; for the officers of the Government; for poor sailors, tossedby stormy seas; for the oppressed millions groaning under the heel ofEuropean monarchies and Oriental despotisms; for such as have the lightand the good tidings, and yet have not eyes to see nor ears to hearwithal; for the heathen in the far islands of the sea; and closed witha supplication that the words he was about to speak might find graceand favor, and be as seed sown in fertile ground, yielding in time agrateful harvest of good. Amen.
There was a rustling of dresses, and the standing congregation sat down.The boy whose history this book relates did not enjoy the prayer, heonly endured it—if he even did that much. He was restive all through it;he kept tally of the details of the prayer, unconsciously—for he was notlistening, but he knew the ground of old, and the clergyman’s regularroute over it—and when a little trifle of new matter was interlarded,his ear detected it and his whole nature resented it; he consideredadditions unfair, and scoundrelly. In the midst of the prayer a fly hadlit on the back of the pew in front of him and tortured his spirit bycalmly rubbing its hands together, embracing its head with its arms, andpolishing it so vigorously that it seemed to almost part company withthe body, and the slender thread of a neck was exposed to view; scrapingits wings with its hind legs and smoothing them to its body as if theyhad been coat-tails; going through its whole toilet as tranquilly as ifit knew it was perfectly safe. As indeed it was; for as sorely as Tom’shands itched to grab for it they did not dare—he believed his soul wouldbe instantly destroyed if he did such a thing while the prayer was goingon. But with the closing sentence his hand began to curve and stealforward; and the instant the “Amen” was out the fly was a prisoner ofwar. His aunt detected the act and made him let it go.
The minister gave out his text and droned along monotonously through anargument that was so prosy that many a head by and by began to nod—andyet it was an argument that dealt in limitless fire and brimstone andthinned the predestined elect down to a company so small as to be hardlyworth the saving. Tom counted the pages of the sermon; after church healways knew how many pages there had been, but he seldom knew anythingelse about the discourse. However, this time he was really interestedfor a little while. The minister made a grand and moving picture of theassembling together of the world’s hosts at the millennium when the lionand the lamb should lie down together and a little child should leadthem. But the pathos, the lesson, the moral of the great spectaclewere lost upon the boy; he only thought of the conspicuousness of theprincipal character before the on-looking nations; his face lit with thethought, and he said to himself that he wished he could be that child,if it was a tame lion.
Now he lapsed into suffering again, as the dry argument was resumed.Presently he bethought him of a treasure he had and got it out. It wasa large black beetle with formidable jaws—a “pinchbug,” he called it. Itwas in a percussion-cap box. The first thing the beetle did was totake him by the finger. A natural fillip followed, the beetle wentfloundering into the aisle and lit on its back, and the hurt finger wentinto the boy’s mouth. The beetle lay there working its helpless legs,unable to turn over. Tom eyed it, and longed for it; but it was safe outof his reach. Other people uninterested in the sermon found relief inthe beetle, and they eyed it too. Presently a vagrant poodle dog cameidling along, sad at heart, lazy with the summer softness and thequiet, weary of captivity, sighing for change. He spied the beetle; thedrooping tail lifted and wagged. He surveyed the prize; walked aroundit; smelt at it from a safe distance; walked around it again; grewbolder, and took a closer smell; then lifted his lip and made a gingerlysnatch at it, just missing it; made another, and another; began to enjoythe diversion; subsided to his stomach with the beetle between his paws,and continued his experiments; grew weary at last, and then indifferentand absent-minded. His head nodded, and little by little his chindescended and touched the enemy, who seized it. There was a sharp yelp,a flirt of the poodle’s head, and the beetle fell a couple of yardsaway, and lit on its back once more. The neighboring spectatorsshook with a gentle inward joy, several faces went behind fans andhand-kerchiefs, and Tom was entirely happy. The dog looked foolish,and probably felt so; but there was resentment in his heart, too, and acraving for revenge. So he went to the beetle and began a wary attack onit again; jumping at it from every point of a circle, lighting with hisfore-paws within an inch of the creature, making even closer snatches atit with his teeth, and jerking his head till his ears flapped again. Buthe grew tired once more, after a while; tried to amuse himself with afly but found no relief; followed an ant around, with his nose closeto the floor, and quickly wearied of that; yawned, sighed, forgot thebeetle entirely, and sat down on it. Then there was a wild yelp of agonyand the poodle went sailing up the aisle; the yelps continued, and sodid the dog; he crossed the house in front of the altar; he flewdown the other aisle; he crossed before the doors; he clamored up thehome-stretch; his anguish grew with his progress, till presently he wasbut a woolly comet moving in its orbit with the gleam and the speed oflight. At last the frantic sufferer sheered from its course, and spranginto its master’s lap; he flung it out of the window, and the voice ofdistress quickly thinned away and died in the distance.
By this time the whole church was red-faced and suffocating withsuppressed laughter, and the sermon had come to a dead standstill.The discourse was resumed presently, but it went lame and halting, allpossibility of impressiveness being at an end; for even the gravestsentiments were constantly being received with a smothered burst ofunholy mirth, under cover of some remote pew-back, as if the poor parsonhad said a rarely facetious thing. It was a genuine relief to the wholecongregation when the ordeal was over and the benediction pronounced.
Tom Sawyer went home quite cheerful, thinking to himself that there wassome satisfaction about divine service when there was a bit of varietyin it. He had but one marring thought; he was willing that the dogshould play with his pinchbug, but he did not think it was upright inhim to carry it off.



CHAPTER VI

MONDAY morning found Tom Sawyer miserable. Monday morning always foundhim so—because it began another week’s slow suffering in school. Hegenerally began that day with wishing he had had no intervening holiday,it made the going into captivity and fetters again so much more odious.
Tom lay thinking. Presently it occurred to him that he wished he wassick; then he could stay home from school. Here was a vague possibility.He canvassed his system. No ailment was found, and he investigatedagain. This time he thought he could detect colicky symptoms, and hebegan to encourage them with considerable hope. But they soon grewfeeble, and presently died wholly away. He reflected further. Suddenlyhe discovered something. One of his upper front teeth was loose. Thiswas lucky; he was about to begin to groan, as a “starter,” as hecalled it, when it occurred to him that if he came into court with thatargument, his aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. So he thoughthe would hold the tooth in reserve for the present, and seek further.Nothing offered for some little time, and then he remembered hearingthe doctor tell about a certain thing that laid up a patient for two orthree weeks and threatened to make him lose a finger. So the boy eagerlydrew his sore toe from under the sheet and held it up for inspection.But now he did not know the necessary symptoms. However, it seemedwell worth while to chance it, so he fell to groaning with considerablespirit.
But Sid slept on unconscious.
Tom groaned louder, and fancied that he began to feel pain in the toe.
No result from Sid.
Tom was panting with his exertions by this time. He took a rest and thenswelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans.
Sid snored on.
Tom was aggravated. He said, “Sid, Sid!” and shook him. This courseworked well, and Tom began to groan again. Sid yawned, stretched, thenbrought himself up on his elbow with a snort, and began to stare at Tom.Tom went on groaning. Sid said:
“Tom! Say, Tom!” [No response.] “Here, Tom! TOM! What is the matter,Tom?” And he shook him and looked in his face anxiously.
Tom moaned out:
“Oh, don’t, Sid. Don’t joggle me.”
“Why, what’s the matter, Tom? I must call auntie.”
“No—never mind. It’ll be over by and by, maybe. Don’t call anybody.”
“But I must! _Don’t_ groan so, Tom, it’s awful. How long you been thisway?”
“Hours. Ouch! Oh, don’t stir so, Sid, you’ll kill me.”
“Tom, why didn’t you wake me sooner? Oh, Tom, _don’t!_ It makes my fleshcrawl to hear you. Tom, what is the matter?”
“I forgive you everything, Sid. [Groan.] Everything you’ve ever done tome. When I’m gone—”
“Oh, Tom, you ain’t dying, are you? Don’t, Tom—oh, don’t. Maybe—”
“I forgive everybody, Sid. [Groan.] Tell ’em so, Sid. And Sid, you givemy window-sash and my cat with one eye to that new girl that’s come totown, and tell her—”
But Sid had snatched his clothes and gone. Tom was suffering in reality,now, so handsomely was his imagination working, and so his groans hadgathered quite a genuine tone.
Sid flew downstairs and said:
“Oh, Aunt Polly, come! Tom’s dying!”
“Dying!”
“Yes’m. Don’t wait—come quick!”
“Rubbage! I don’t believe it!”
But she fled upstairs, nevertheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels.And her face grew white, too, and her lip trembled. When she reached thebedside she gasped out:
“You, Tom! Tom, what’s the matter with you?”
“Oh, auntie, I’m—”
“What’s the matter with you—what is the matter with you, child?”
“Oh, auntie, my sore toe’s mortified!”
The old lady sank down into a chair and laughed a little, then cried alittle, then did both together. This restored her and she said:
“Tom, what a turn you did give me. Now you shut up that nonsense andclimb out of this.”
The groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe. The boy felt alittle foolish, and he said:
“Aunt Polly, it _seemed_ mortified, and it hurt so I never minded mytooth at all.”
“Your tooth, indeed! What’s the matter with your tooth?”
“One of them’s loose, and it aches perfectly awful.”
“There, there, now, don’t begin that groaning again. Open your mouth.Well—your tooth _is_ loose, but you’re not going to die about that.Mary, get me a silk thread, and a chunk of fire out of the kitchen.”
Tom said:
“Oh, please, auntie, don’t pull it out. It don’t hurt any more. I wishI may never stir if it does. Please don’t, auntie. I don’t want to stayhome from school.”
“Oh, you don’t, don’t you? So all this row was because you thought you’dget to stay home from school and go a-fishing? Tom, Tom, I love you so,and you seem to try every way you can to break my old heart with youroutrageousness.” By this time the dental instruments were ready. The oldlady made one end of the silk thread fast to Tom’s tooth with a loopand tied the other to the bedpost. Then she seized the chunk of fire andsuddenly thrust it almost into the boy’s face. The tooth hung danglingby the bedpost, now.
But all trials bring their compensations. As Tom wended to school afterbreakfast, he was the envy of every boy he met because the gap in hisupper row of teeth enabled him to expectorate in a new and admirableway. He gathered quite a following of lads interested in the exhibition;and one that had cut his finger and had been a centre of fascination andhomage up to this time, now found himself suddenly without an adherent,and shorn of his glory. His heart was heavy, and he said with a disdainwhich he did not feel that it wasn’t anything to spit like Tom Sawyer;but another boy said, “Sour grapes!” and he wandered away a dismantledhero.
Shortly Tom came upon the juvenile pariah of the village, HuckleberryFinn, son of the town drunkard. Huckleberry was cordially hated anddreaded by all the mothers of the town, because he was idle and lawlessand vulgar and bad—and because all their children admired him so, anddelighted in his forbidden society, and wished they dared to be likehim. Tom was like the rest of the respectable boys, in that he enviedHuckleberry his gaudy outcast condition, and was under strict ordersnot to play with him. So he played with him every time he got a chance.Huckleberry was always dressed in the cast-off clothes of full-grownmen, and they were in perennial bloom and fluttering with rags. His hatwas a vast ruin with a wide crescent lopped out of its brim; his coat,when he wore one, hung nearly to his heels and had the rearward buttonsfar down the back; but one suspender supported his trousers; the seat ofthe trousers bagged low and contained nothing, the fringed legs draggedin the dirt when not rolled up.
Huckleberry came and went, at his own free will. He slept on doorstepsin fine weather and in empty hogsheads in wet; he did not have to go toschool or to church, or call any being master or obey anybody; he couldgo fishing or swimming when and where he chose, and stay as long as itsuited him; nobody forbade him to fight; he could sit up as late as hepleased; he was always the first boy that went barefoot in the springand the last to resume leather in the fall; he never had to wash, norput on clean clothes; he could swear wonderfully. In a word, everythingthat goes to make life precious that boy had. So thought every harassed,hampered, respectable boy in St. Petersburg.
Tom hailed the romantic outcast:
“Hello, Huckleberry!”
“Hello yourself, and see how you like it.”
“What’s that you got?”
“Dead cat.”
“Lemme see him, Huck. My, he’s pretty stiff. Where’d you get him?”
“Bought him off’n a boy.”
“What did you give?”
“I give a blue ticket and a bladder that I got at the slaughter-house.”
“Where’d you get the blue ticket?”
“Bought it off’n Ben Rogers two weeks ago for a hoop-stick.”
“Say—what is dead cats good for, Huck?”
“Good for? Cure warts with.”
“No! Is that so? I know something that’s better.”
“I bet you don’t. What is it?”
“Why, spunk-water.”
“Spunk-water! I wouldn’t give a dern for spunk-water.”
“You wouldn’t, wouldn’t you? D’you ever try it?”
“No, I hain’t. But Bob Tanner did.”
“Who told you so!”
“Why, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnnytold Jim Hollis, and Jim told Ben Rogers, and Ben told a nigger, and thenigger told me. There now!”
“Well, what of it? They’ll all lie. Leastways all but the nigger. Idon’t know _him_. But I never see a nigger that _wouldn’t_ lie. Shucks!Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it, Huck.”
“Why, he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rain-waterwas.”
“In the daytime?”
“Certainly.”
“With his face to the stump?”
“Yes. Least I reckon so.”
“Did he say anything?”
“I don’t reckon he did. I don’t know.”
“Aha! Talk about trying to cure warts with spunk-water such a blame foolway as that! Why, that ain’t a-going to do any good. You got to go allby yourself, to the middle of the woods, where you know there’s aspunk-water stump, and just as it’s midnight you back up against the stumpand jam your hand in and say:
‘Barley-corn, barley-corn, injun-meal shorts, Spunk-water, spunk-water,swaller these warts,’
and then walk away quick, eleven steps, with your eyes shut, and thenturn around three times and walk home without speaking to anybody.Because if you speak the charm’s busted.”
“Well, that sounds like a good way; but that ain’t the way Bob Tannerdone.”
“No, sir, you can bet he didn’t, becuz he’s the wartiest boy in thistown; and he wouldn’t have a wart on him if he’d knowed how to workspunk-water. I’ve took off thousands of warts off of my hands that way,Huck. I play with frogs so much that I’ve always got considerable manywarts. Sometimes I take ’em off with a bean.”
“Yes, bean’s good. I’ve done that.”
“Have you? What’s your way?”
“You take and split the bean, and cut the wart so as to get some blood,and then you put the blood on one piece of the bean and take and diga hole and bury it ’bout midnight at the crossroads in the dark of themoon, and then you burn up the rest of the bean. You see that piecethat’s got the blood on it will keep drawing and drawing, trying tofetch the other piece to it, and so that helps the blood to draw thewart, and pretty soon off she comes.”
“Yes, that’s it, Huck—that’s it; though when you’re burying it if yousay ‘Down bean; off wart; come no more to bother me!’ it’s better.That’s the way Joe Harper does, and he’s been nearly to Coonville andmost everywheres. But say—how do you cure ’em with dead cats?”
“Why, you take your cat and go and get in the grave-yard ’long aboutmidnight when somebody that was wicked has been buried; and when it’smidnight a devil will come, or maybe two or three, but you can’t see’em, you can only hear something like the wind, or maybe hear ’em talk;and when they’re taking that feller away, you heave your cat after ’emand say, ‘Devil follow corpse, cat follow devil, warts follow cat, I’mdone with ye!’ That’ll fetch _any_ wart.”
“Sounds right. D’you ever try it, Huck?”
“No, but old Mother Hopkins told me.”
“Well, I reckon it’s so, then. Becuz they say she’s a witch.”
“Say! Why, Tom, I _know_ she is. She witched pap. Pap says so his ownself. He come along one day, and he see she was a-witching him, so hetook up a rock, and if she hadn’t dodged, he’d a got her. Well, thatvery night he rolled off’n a shed wher’ he was a layin drunk, and brokehis arm.”
“Why, that’s awful. How did he know she was a-witching him?”
“Lord, pap can tell, easy. Pap says when they keep looking at you rightstiddy, they’re a-witching you. Specially if they mumble. Becuz whenthey mumble they’re saying the Lord’s Prayer backards.”
“Say, Hucky, when you going to try the cat?”
“To-night. I reckon they’ll come after old Hoss Williams to-night.”
“But they buried him Saturday. Didn’t they get him Saturday night?”
“Why, how you talk! How could their charms work till midnight?—and_then_ it’s Sunday. Devils don’t slosh around much of a Sunday, I don’treckon.”
“I never thought of that. That’s so. Lemme go with you?”
“Of course—if you ain’t afeard.”
“Afeard! ’Tain’t likely. Will you meow?”
“Yes—and you meow back, if you get a chance. Last time, you kep’ mea-meowing around till old Hays went to throwing rocks at me and says‘Dern that cat!’ and so I hove a brick through his window—but don’t youtell.”
“I won’t. I couldn’t meow that night, becuz auntie was watching me, butI’ll meow this time. Say—what’s that?”
“Nothing but a tick.”
“Where’d you get him?”
“Out in the woods.”
“What’ll you take for him?”
“I don’t know. I don’t want to sell him.”
“All right. It’s a mighty small tick, anyway.”
“Oh, anybody can run a tick down that don’t belong to them. I’msatisfied with it. It’s a good enough tick for me.”
“Sho, there’s ticks a plenty. I could have a thousand of ’em if I wantedto.”
“Well, why don’t you? Becuz you know mighty well you can’t. This is apretty early tick, I reckon. It’s the first one I’ve seen this year.”
“Say, Huck—I’ll give you my tooth for him.”
“Less see it.”
Tom got out a bit of paper and carefully unrolled it. Huckleberry viewedit wistfully. The temptation was very strong. At last he said:
“Is it genuwyne?”
Tom lifted his lip and showed the vacancy.
“Well, all right,” said Huckleberry, “it’s a trade.”
Tom enclosed the tick in the percussion-cap box that had lately been thepinchbug’s prison, and the boys separated, each feeling wealthier thanbefore.
When Tom reached the little isolated frame school-house, he strode inbriskly, with the manner of one who had come with all honest speed. Hehung his hat on a peg and flung himself into his seat with business-likealacrity. The master, throned on high in his great splint-bottomarm-chair, was dozing, lulled by the drowsy hum of study. Theinterruption roused him.
“Thomas Sawyer!”
Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full, it meant trouble.
“Sir!”
“Come up here. Now, sir, why are you late again, as usual?”
Tom was about to take refuge in a lie, when he saw two long tails ofyellow hair hanging down a back that he recognized by the electricsympathy of love; and by that form was _the only vacant place_ on thegirls’ side of the school-house. He instantly said:
“_I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn!_”
The master’s pulse stood still, and he stared helplessly. The buzz ofstudy ceased. The pupils wondered if this foolhardy boy had lost hismind. The master said:
“You—you did what?”
“Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn.”
There was no mistaking the words.
“Thomas Sawyer, this is the most astounding confession I have everlistened to. No mere ferule will answer for this offence. Take off yourjacket.”
The master’s arm performed until it was tired and the stock of switchesnotably diminished. Then the order followed:
“Now, sir, go and sit with the girls! And let this be a warning to you.”
The titter that rippled around the room appeared to abash the boy, butin reality that result was caused rather more by his worshipful aweof his unknown idol and the dread pleasure that lay in his high goodfortune. He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl hitchedherself away from him with a toss of her head. Nudges and winks andwhispers traversed the room, but Tom sat still, with his arms upon thelong, low desk before him, and seemed to study his book.
By and by attention ceased from him, and the accustomed school murmurrose upon the dull air once more. Presently the boy began to stealfurtive glances at the girl. She observed it, “made a mouth” at himand gave him the back of her head for the space of a minute. When shecautiously faced around again, a peach lay before her. She thrust itaway. Tom gently put it back. She thrust it away again, but with lessanimosity. Tom patiently returned it to its place. Then she let itremain. Tom scrawled on his slate, “Please take it—I got more.” Thegirl glanced at the words, but made no sign. Now the boy began to drawsomething on the slate, hiding his work with his left hand. For a timethe girl refused to notice; but her human curiosity presently beganto manifest itself by hardly perceptible signs. The boy worked on,apparently unconscious. The girl made a sort of non-committal attemptto see, but the boy did not betray that he was aware of it. At last shegave in and hesitatingly whispered:
“Let me see it.”
Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two gable endsto it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney. Then the girl’sinterest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot everythingelse. When it was finished, she gazed a moment, then whispered:
“It’s nice—make a man.”
The artist erected a man in the front yard, that resembled a derrick. Hecould have stepped over the house; but the girl was not hypercritical;she was satisfied with the monster, and whispered:
“It’s a beautiful man—now make me coming along.”
Tom drew an hour-glass with a full moon and straw limbs to it and armedthe spreading fingers with a portentous fan. The girl said:
“It’s ever so nice—I wish I could draw.”
“It’s easy,” whispered Tom, “I’ll learn you.”
“Oh, will you? When?”
“At noon. Do you go home to dinner?”
“I’ll stay if you will.”
“Good—that’s a whack. What’s your name?”
“Becky Thatcher. What’s yours? Oh, I know. It’s Thomas Sawyer.”
“That’s the name they lick me by. I’m Tom when I’m good. You call meTom, will you?”
“Yes.”
Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate, hiding the words fromthe girl. But she was not backward this time. She begged to see. Tomsaid:
“Oh, it ain’t anything.”
“Yes it is.”
“No it ain’t. You don’t want to see.”
“Yes I do, indeed I do. Please let me.”
“You’ll tell.”
“No I won’t—deed and deed and double deed won’t.”
“You won’t tell anybody at all? Ever, as long as you live?”
“No, I won’t ever tell _any_body. Now let me.”
“Oh, _you_ don’t want to see!”
“Now that you treat me so, I _will_ see.” And she put her small handupon his and a little scuffle ensued, Tom pretending to resist inearnest but letting his hand slip by degrees till these words wererevealed: “_I love you_.”
“Oh, you bad thing!” And she hit his hand a smart rap, but reddened andlooked pleased, nevertheless.
Just at this juncture the boy felt a slow, fateful grip closing on hisear, and a steady lifting impulse. In that wise he was borne across thehouse and deposited in his own seat, under a peppering fire of gigglesfrom the whole school. Then the master stood over him during a few awfulmoments, and finally moved away to his throne without saying a word. Butalthough Tom’s ear tingled, his heart was jubilant.
As the school quieted down Tom made an honest effort to study, butthe turmoil within him was too great. In turn he took his place in thereading class and made a botch of it; then in the geography class andturned lakes into mountains, mountains into rivers, and rivers intocontinents, till chaos was come again; then in the spelling class, andgot “turned down,” by a succession of mere baby words, till he broughtup at the foot and yielded up the pewter medal which he had worn withostentation for months.



CHAPTER VII

THE harder Tom tried to fasten his mind on his book, the more his ideaswandered. So at last, with a sigh and a yawn, he gave it up. It seemedto him that the noon recess would never come. The air was utterly dead.There was not a breath stirring. It was the sleepiest of sleepy days.The drowsing murmur of the five and twenty studying scholars soothedthe soul like the spell that is in the murmur of bees. Away off in theflaming sunshine, Cardiff Hill lifted its soft green sides through ashimmering veil of heat, tinted with the purple of distance; a few birdsfloated on lazy wing high in the air; no other living thing was visiblebut some cows, and they were asleep. Tom’s heart ached to be free, orelse to have something of interest to do to pass the dreary time.His hand wandered into his pocket and his face lit up with a glow ofgratitude that was prayer, though he did not know it. Then furtivelythe percussion-cap box came out. He released the tick and put him onthe long flat desk. The creature probably glowed with a gratitude thatamounted to prayer, too, at this moment, but it was premature: for whenhe started thankfully to travel off, Tom turned him aside with a pin andmade him take a new direction.
Tom’s bosom friend sat next him, suffering just as Tom had been, andnow he was deeply and gratefully interested in this entertainment inan instant. This bosom friend was Joe Harper. The two boys were swornfriends all the week, and embattled enemies on Saturdays. Joe took apin out of his lapel and began to assist in exercising the prisoner.The sport grew in interest momently. Soon Tom said that they wereinterfering with each other, and neither getting the fullest benefitof the tick. So he put Joe’s slate on the desk and drew a line down themiddle of it from top to bottom.
“Now,” said he, “as long as he is on your side you can stir him up andI’ll let him alone; but if you let him get away and get on my side,you’re to leave him alone as long as I can keep him from crossing over.”
“All right, go ahead; start him up.”
The tick escaped from Tom, presently, and crossed the equator. Joeharassed him awhile, and then he got away and crossed back again. Thischange of base occurred often. While one boy was worrying the tick withabsorbing interest, the other would look on with interest as strong, thetwo heads bowed together over the slate, and the two souls dead to allthings else. At last luck seemed to settle and abide with Joe. Thetick tried this, that, and the other course, and got as excited and asanxious as the boys themselves, but time and again just as he wouldhave victory in his very grasp, so to speak, and Tom’s fingers wouldbe twitching to begin, Joe’s pin would deftly head him off, and keeppossession. At last Tom could stand it no longer. The temptation was toostrong. So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin. Joe was angry ina moment. Said he:
“Tom, you let him alone.”
“I only just want to stir him up a little, Joe.”
“No, sir, it ain’t fair; you just let him alone.”
“Blame it, I ain’t going to stir him much.”
“Let him alone, I tell you.”
“I won’t!”
“You shall—he’s on my side of the line.”
“Look here, Joe Harper, whose is that tick?”
“I don’t care whose tick he is—he’s on my side of the line, and yousha’n’t touch him.”
“Well, I’ll just bet I will, though. He’s my tick and I’ll do what Iblame please with him, or die!”
A tremendous whack came down on Tom’s shoulders, and its duplicate onJoe’s; and for the space of two minutes the dust continued to fly fromthe two jackets and the whole school to enjoy it. The boys had beentoo absorbed to notice the hush that had stolen upon the school awhilebefore when the master came tiptoeing down the room and stood over them.He had contemplated a good part of the performance before he contributedhis bit of variety to it.
When school broke up at noon, Tom flew to Becky Thatcher, and whisperedin her ear:
“Put on your bonnet and let on you’re going home; and when you get tothe corner, give the rest of ’em the slip, and turn down through thelane and come back. I’ll go the other way and come it over ’em the sameway.”
So the one went off with one group of scholars, and the other withanother. In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane, andwhen they reached the school they had it all to themselves. Then theysat together, with a slate before them, and Tom gave Becky the penciland held her hand in his, guiding it, and so created another surprisinghouse. When the interest in art began to wane, the two fell to talking.Tom was swimming in bliss. He said:
“Do you love rats?”
“No! I hate them!”
“Well, I do, too—_live_ ones. But I mean dead ones, to swing round yourhead with a string.”
“No, I don’t care for rats much, anyway. What I like is chewing-gum.”
“Oh, I should say so! I wish I had some now.”
“Do you? I’ve got some. I’ll let you chew it awhile, but you must giveit back to me.”
That was agreeable, so they chewed it turn about, and dangled their legsagainst the bench in excess of contentment.
“Was you ever at a circus?” said Tom.
“Yes, and my pa’s going to take me again some time, if I’m good.”
“I been to the circus three or four times—lots of times. Church ain’tshucks to a circus. There’s things going on at a circus all the time.I’m going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up.”
“Oh, are you! That will be nice. They’re so lovely, all spotted up.”
“Yes, that’s so. And they get slathers of money—most a dollar a day, BenRogers says. Say, Becky, was you ever engaged?”
“What’s that?”
“Why, engaged to be married.”
“No.”
“Would you like to?”
“I reckon so. I don’t know. What is it like?”
“Like? Why it ain’t like anything. You only just tell a boy you won’tever have anybody but him, ever ever ever, and then you kiss and that’sall. Anybody can do it.”
“Kiss? What do you kiss for?”
“Why, that, you know, is to—well, they always do that.”
“Everybody?”
“Why, yes, everybody that’s in love with each other. Do you rememberwhat I wrote on the slate?”
“Ye—yes.”
“What was it?”
“I sha’n’t tell you.”
“Shall I tell _you_?”
“Ye—yes—but some other time.”
“No, now.”
“No, not now—to-morrow.”
“Oh, no, _now_. Please, Becky—I’ll whisper it, I’ll whisper it ever soeasy.”
Becky hesitating, Tom took silence for consent, and passed his arm abouther waist and whispered the tale ever so softly, with his mouth close toher ear. And then he added:
“Now you whisper it to me—just the same.”
She resisted, for a while, and then said:
“You turn your face away so you can’t see, and then I will. But youmustn’t ever tell anybody—_will_ you, Tom? Now you won’t, _will_ you?”
“No, indeed, indeed I won’t. Now, Becky.”
He turned his face away. She bent timidly around till her breath stirredhis curls and whispered, “I—love—you!”
Then she sprang away and ran around and around the desks and benches,with Tom after her, and took refuge in a corner at last, with her littlewhite apron to her face. Tom clasped her about her neck and pleaded:
“Now, Becky, it’s all done—all over but the kiss. Don’t you be afraidof that—it ain’t anything at all. Please, Becky.” And he tugged at herapron and the hands.
By and by she gave up, and let her hands drop; her face, all glowingwith the struggle, came up and submitted. Tom kissed the red lips andsaid:
“Now it’s all done, Becky. And always after this, you know, you ain’tever to love anybody but me, and you ain’t ever to marry anybody but me,ever never and forever. Will you?”
“No, I’ll never love anybody but you, Tom, and I’ll never marry anybodybut you—and you ain’t to ever marry anybody but me, either.”
“Certainly. Of course. That’s _part_ of it. And always coming to schoolor when we’re going home, you’re to walk with me, when there ain’tanybody looking—and you choose me and I choose you at parties, becausethat’s the way you do when you’re engaged.”
“It’s so nice. I never heard of it before.”
“Oh, it’s ever so gay! Why, me and Amy Lawrence—”
The big eyes told Tom his blunder and he stopped, confused.
“Oh, Tom! Then I ain’t the first you’ve ever been engaged to!”
The child began to cry. Tom said:
“Oh, don’t cry, Becky, I don’t care for her any more.”
“Yes, you do, Tom—you know you do.”
Tom tried to put his arm about her neck, but she pushed him away andturned her face to the wall, and went on crying. Tom tried again, withsoothing words in his mouth, and was repulsed again. Then his pride wasup, and he strode away and went outside. He stood about, restless anduneasy, for a while, glancing at the door, every now and then, hopingshe would repent and come to find him. But she did not. Then he beganto feel badly and fear that he was in the wrong. It was a hard strugglewith him to make new advances, now, but he nerved himself to it andentered. She was still standing back there in the corner, sobbing, withher face to the wall. Tom’s heart smote him. He went to her and stood amoment, not knowing exactly how to proceed. Then he said hesitatingly:
“Becky, I—I don’t care for anybody but you.”
No reply—but sobs.
“Becky”—pleadingly. “Becky, won’t you say something?”
More sobs.
Tom got out his chiefest jewel, a brass knob from the top of an andiron,and passed it around her so that she could see it, and said:
“Please, Becky, won’t you take it?”
She struck it to the floor. Then Tom marched out of the house and overthe hills and far away, to return to school no more that day. PresentlyBecky began to suspect. She ran to the door; he was not in sight; sheflew around to the play-yard; he was not there. Then she called:
“Tom! Come back, Tom!”
She listened intently, but there was no answer. She had no companionsbut silence and loneliness. So she sat down to cry again and upbraidherself; and by this time the scholars began to gather again, and shehad to hide her griefs and still her broken heart and take up the crossof a long, dreary, aching afternoon, with none among the strangers abouther to exchange sorrows with.



CHAPTER VIII

TOM dodged hither and thither through lanes until he was well out of thetrack of returning scholars, and then fell into a moody jog. He crosseda small “branch” two or three times, because of a prevailing juvenilesuperstition that to cross water baffled pursuit. Half an hour laterhe was disappearing behind the Douglas mansion on the summit of CardiffHill, and the school-house was hardly distinguishable away off in thevalley behind him. He entered a dense wood, picked his pathless way tothe centre of it, and sat down on a mossy spot under a spreading oak.There was not even a zephyr stirring; the dead noonday heat had evenstilled the songs of the birds; nature lay in a trance that was brokenby no sound but the occasional far-off hammering of a wood-pecker, andthis seemed to render the pervading silence and sense of loneliness themore profound. The boy’s soul was steeped in melancholy; his feelingswere in happy accord with his surroundings. He sat long with his elbowson his knees and his chin in his hands, meditating. It seemed to himthat life was but a trouble, at best, and he more than half envied JimmyHodges, so lately released; it must be very peaceful, he thought, to lieand slumber and dream forever and ever, with the wind whispering throughthe trees and caressing the grass and the flowers over the grave, andnothing to bother and grieve about, ever any more. If he only had aclean Sunday-school record he could be willing to go, and be done withit all. Now as to this girl. What had he done? Nothing. He had meantthe best in the world, and been treated like a dog—like a very dog. Shewould be sorry some day—maybe when it was too late. Ah, if he could onlydie _temporarily_!
But the elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrainedshape long at a time. Tom presently began to drift insensibly back intothe concerns of this life again. What if he turned his back, now, anddisappeared mysteriously? What if he went away—ever so far away, intounknown countries beyond the seas—and never came back any more! Howwould she feel then! The idea of being a clown recurred to him now, onlyto fill him with disgust. For frivolity and jokes and spotted tightswere an offense, when they intruded themselves upon a spirit that wasexalted into the vague august realm of the romantic. No, he would bea soldier, and return after long years, all war-worn and illustrious.No—better still, he would join the Indians, and hunt buffaloes and go onthe warpath in the mountain ranges and the trackless great plains of theFar West, and away in the future come back a great chief, bristling withfeathers, hideous with paint, and prance into Sunday-school, some drowsysummer morning, with a blood-curdling war-whoop, and sear the eyeballsof all his companions with unappeasable envy. But no, there wassomething gaudier even than this. He would be a pirate! That was it!_now_ his future lay plain before him, and glowing with unimaginablesplendor. How his name would fill the world, and make people shudder!How gloriously he would go plowing the dancing seas, in his long, low,black-hulled racer, the Spirit of the Storm, with his grisly flag flyingat the fore! And at the zenith of his fame, how he would suddenly appearat the old village and stalk into church, brown and weather-beaten, inhis black velvet doublet and trunks, his great jack-boots, his crimsonsash, his belt bristling with horse-pistols, his crime-rusted cutlassat his side, his slouch hat with waving plumes, his black flag unfurled,with the skull and crossbones on it, and hear with swelling ecstasythe whisperings, “It’s Tom Sawyer the Pirate!—the Black Avenger of theSpanish Main!”
Yes, it was settled; his career was determined. He would run away fromhome and enter upon it. He would start the very next morning. Thereforehe must now begin to get ready. He would collect his resources together.He went to a rotten log near at hand and began to dig under one end ofit with his Barlow knife. He soon struck wood that sounded hollow. Heput his hand there and uttered this incantation impressively:
“What hasn’t come here, come! What’s here, stay here!”
Then he scraped away the dirt, and exposed a pine shingle. He took itup and disclosed a shapely little treasure-house whose bottom and sideswere of shingles. In it lay a marble. Tom’s astonishment was bound-less!He scratched his head with a perplexed air, and said:
“Well, that beats anything!”
Then he tossed the marble away pettishly, and stood cogitating. Thetruth was, that a superstition of his had failed, here, which he andall his comrades had always looked upon as infallible. If you burieda marble with certain necessary incantations, and left it alone afortnight, and then opened the place with the incantation he had justused, you would find that all the marbles you had ever lost had gatheredthemselves together there, meantime, no matter how widely they had beenseparated. But now, this thing had actually and unquestionably failed.Tom’s whole structure of faith was shaken to its foundations. He hadmany a time heard of this thing succeeding but never of its failingbefore. It did not occur to him that he had tried it several timesbefore, himself, but could never find the hiding-places afterward. Hepuzzled over the matter some time, and finally decided that some witchhad interfered and broken the charm. He thought he would satisfy himselfon that point; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spotwith a little funnel-shaped depression in it. He laid himself down andput his mouth close to this depression and called—
“Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know! Doodle-bug,doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!”
The sand began to work, and presently a small black bug appeared for asecond and then darted under again in a fright.
“He dasn’t tell! So it _was_ a witch that done it. I just knowed it.”
He well knew the futility of trying to contend against witches, so hegave up discouraged. But it occurred to him that he might as well havethe marble he had just thrown away, and therefore he went and made apatient search for it. But he could not find it. Now he went back to histreasure-house and carefully placed himself just as he had been standingwhen he tossed the marble away; then he took another marble from hispocket and tossed it in the same way, saying:
“Brother, go find your brother!”
He watched where it stopped, and went there and looked. But it musthave fallen short or gone too far; so he tried twice more. The lastrepetition was successful. The two marbles lay within a foot of eachother.
Just here the blast of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the greenaisles of the forest. Tom flung off his jacket and trousers, turneda suspender into a belt, raked away some brush behind the rotten log,disclosing a rude bow and arrow, a lath sword and a tin trumpet, andin a moment had seized these things and bounded away, barelegged,with fluttering shirt. He presently halted under a great elm, blew ananswering blast, and then began to tiptoe and look warily out, this wayand that. He said cautiously—to an imaginary company:
“Hold, my merry men! Keep hid till I blow.”
Now appeared Joe Harper, as airily clad and elaborately armed as Tom.Tom called:
“Hold! Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?”
“Guy of Guisborne wants no man’s pass. Who art thou that—that—”
“Dares to hold such language,” said Tom, prompting—for they talked “bythe book,” from memory.
“Who art thou that dares to hold such language?”
“I, indeed! I am Robin Hood, as thy caitiff carcase soon shall know.”
“Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw? Right gladly will I disputewith thee the passes of the merry wood. Have at thee!”
They took their lath swords, dumped their other traps on the ground,struck a fencing attitude, foot to foot, and began a grave, carefulcombat, “two up and two down.” Presently Tom said:
“Now, if you’ve got the hang, go it lively!”
So they “went it lively,” panting and perspiring with the work. By andby Tom shouted:
“Fall! fall! Why don’t you fall?”
“I sha’n’t! Why don’t you fall yourself? You’re getting the worst ofit.”
“Why, that ain’t anything. I can’t fall; that ain’t the way it is in thebook. The book says, ‘Then with one back-handed stroke he slew poor Guyof Guisborne.’ You’re to turn around and let me hit you in the back.”
There was no getting around the authorities, so Joe turned, received thewhack and fell.
“Now,” said Joe, getting up, “you got to let me kill _you_. That’sfair.”
“Why, I can’t do that, it ain’t in the book.”
“Well, it’s blamed mean—that’s all.”
“Well, say, Joe, you can be Friar Tuck or Much the miller’s son, and lamme with a quarter-staff; or I’ll be the Sheriff of Nottingham and you beRobin Hood a little while and kill me.”
This was satisfactory, and so these adventures were carried out. ThenTom became Robin Hood again, and was allowed by the treacherous nun tobleed his strength away through his neglected wound. And at last Joe,representing a whole tribe of weeping outlaws, dragged him sadly forth,gave his bow into his feeble hands, and Tom said, “Where this arrowfalls, there bury poor Robin Hood under the greenwood tree.” Then heshot the arrow and fell back and would have died, but he lit on a nettleand sprang up too gaily for a corpse.
The boys dressed themselves, hid their accoutrements, and went offgrieving that there were no outlaws any more, and wondering what moderncivilization could claim to have done to compensate for their loss.They said they would rather be outlaws a year in Sherwood Forest thanPresident of the United States forever.



CHAPTER IX

AT half-past nine, that night, Tom and Sid were sent to bed, as usual.They said their prayers, and Sid was soon asleep. Tom lay awake andwaited, in restless impatience. When it seemed to him that it must benearly daylight, he heard the clock strike ten! This was despair. Hewould have tossed and fidgeted, as his nerves demanded, but he wasafraid he might wake Sid. So he lay still, and stared up into the dark.Everything was dismally still. By and by, out of the stillness, little,scarcely perceptible noises began to emphasize themselves. The tickingof the clock began to bring itself into notice. Old beams began to crackmysteriously. The stairs creaked faintly. Evidently spirits were abroad.A measured, muffled snore issued from Aunt Polly’s chamber. And now thetiresome chirping of a cricket that no human ingenuity could locate,began. Next the ghastly ticking of a death-watch in the wall at thebed’s head made Tom shudder—it meant that somebody’s days were numbered.Then the howl of a far-off dog rose on the night air, and was answeredby a fainter howl from a remoter distance. Tom was in an agony. At lasthe was satisfied that time had ceased and eternity begun; he began todoze, in spite of himself; the clock chimed eleven, but he did not hearit. And then there came, mingling with his half-formed dreams, a mostmelancholy caterwauling. The raising of a neighboring window disturbedhim. A cry of “Scat! you devil!” and the crash of an empty bottleagainst the back of his aunt’s woodshed brought him wide awake, and asingle minute later he was dressed and out of the window and creepingalong the roof of the “ell” on all fours. He “meow’d” with caution onceor twice, as he went; then jumped to the roof of the woodshed and thenceto the ground. Huckleberry Finn was there, with his dead cat. The boysmoved off and disappeared in the gloom. At the end of half an hour theywere wading through the tall grass of the graveyard.
It was a graveyard of the old-fashioned Western kind. It was on a hill,about a mile and a half from the village. It had a crazy board fencearound it, which leaned inward in places, and outward the rest of thetime, but stood upright nowhere. Grass and weeds grew rank over thewhole cemetery. All the old graves were sunken in, there was not atombstone on the place; round-topped, worm-eaten boards staggered overthe graves, leaning for support and finding none. “Sacred to the memoryof” So-and-So had been painted on them once, but it could no longer havebeen read, on the most of them, now, even if there had been light.
A faint wind moaned through the trees, and Tom feared it might be thespirits of the dead, complaining at being disturbed. The boys talkedlittle, and only under their breath, for the time and the place and thepervading solemnity and silence oppressed their spirits. They found thesharp new heap they were seeking, and ensconced themselves within theprotection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a few feet ofthe grave.
Then they waited in silence for what seemed a long time. The hooting ofa distant owl was all the sound that troubled the dead stillness. Tom’sreflections grew oppressive. He must force some talk. So he said in awhisper:
“Hucky, do you believe the dead people like it for us to be here?”
Huckleberry whispered:
“I wisht I knowed. It’s awful solemn like, _ain’t_ it?”
“I bet it is.”
There was a considerable pause, while the boys canvassed this matterinwardly. Then Tom whispered:
“Say, Hucky—do you reckon Hoss Williams hears us talking?”
“O’ course he does. Least his sperrit does.”
Tom, after a pause:
“I wish I’d said Mister Williams. But I never meant any harm. Everybodycalls him Hoss.”
“A body can’t be too partic’lar how they talk ’bout these-yer deadpeople, Tom.”
This was a damper, and conversation died again.
Presently Tom seized his comrade’s arm and said:
“Sh!”
“What is it, Tom?” And the two clung together with beating hearts.
“Sh! There ’tis again! Didn’t you hear it?”
“I—”
“There! Now you hear it.”
“Lord, Tom, they’re coming! They’re coming, sure. What’ll we do?”
“I dono. Think they’ll see us?”
“Oh, Tom, they can see in the dark, same as cats. I wisht I hadn’tcome.”
“Oh, don’t be afeard. I don’t believe they’ll bother us. We ain’t doingany harm. If we keep perfectly still, maybe they won’t notice us atall.”
“I’ll try to, Tom, but, Lord, I’m all of a shiver.”
“Listen!”
The boys bent their heads together and scarcely breathed. A muffledsound of voices floated up from the far end of the graveyard.
“Look! See there!” whispered Tom. “What is it?”
“It’s devil-fire. Oh, Tom, this is awful.”
Some vague figures approached through the gloom, swinging anold-fashioned tin lantern that freckled the ground with innumerablelittle spangles of light. Presently Huckleberry whispered with ashudder:
“It’s the devils sure enough. Three of ’em! Lordy, Tom, we’re goners!Can you pray?”
“I’ll try, but don’t you be afeard. They ain’t going to hurt us. ‘Now Ilay me down to sleep, I—’”
“Sh!”
“What is it, Huck?”
“They’re _humans_! One of ’em is, anyway. One of ’em’s old Muff Potter’svoice.”
“No—’tain’t so, is it?”
“I bet I know it. Don’t you stir nor budge. He ain’t sharp enough tonotice us. Drunk, the same as usual, likely—blamed old rip!”
“All right, I’ll keep still. Now they’re stuck. Can’t find it. Here theycome again. Now they’re hot. Cold again. Hot again. Red hot! They’rep’inted right, this time. Say, Huck, I know another o’ them voices; it’sInjun Joe.”
“That’s so—that murderin’ half-breed! I’d druther they was devils a dernsight. What kin they be up to?”
The whisper died wholly out, now, for the three men had reached thegrave and stood within a few feet of the boys’ hiding-place.
“Here it is,” said the third voice; and the owner of it held the lanternup and revealed the face of young Doctor Robinson.
Potter and Injun Joe were carrying a handbarrow with a rope and a coupleof shovels on it. They cast down their load and began to open the grave.The doctor put the lantern at the head of the grave and came and satdown with his back against one of the elm trees. He was so close theboys could have touched him.
“Hurry, men!” he said, in a low voice; “the moon might come out at anymoment.”
They growled a response and went on digging. For some time there was nonoise but the grating sound of the spades discharging their freight ofmould and gravel. It was very monotonous. Finally a spade struck uponthe coffin with a dull woody accent, and within another minute or twothe men had hoisted it out on the ground. They pried off the lid withtheir shovels, got out the body and dumped it rudely on the ground. Themoon drifted from behind the clouds and exposed the pallid face.The barrow was got ready and the corpse placed on it, covered with ablanket, and bound to its place with the rope. Potter took out a largespring-knife and cut off the dangling end of the rope and then said:
“Now the cussed thing’s ready, Sawbones, and you’ll just out withanother five, or here she stays.”
“That’s the talk!” said Injun Joe.
“Look here, what does this mean?” said the doctor. “You required yourpay in advance, and I’ve paid you.”
“Yes, and you done more than that,” said Injun Joe, approaching thedoctor, who was now standing. “Five years ago you drove me away fromyour father’s kitchen one night, when I come to ask for something toeat, and you said I warn’t there for any good; and when I swore I’d geteven with you if it took a hundred years, your father had me jailed fora vagrant. Did you think I’d forget? The Injun blood ain’t in me fornothing. And now I’ve _got_ you, and you got to _settle_, you know!”
He was threatening the doctor, with his fist in his face, by this time.The doctor struck out suddenly and stretched the ruffian on the ground.Potter dropped his knife, and exclaimed:
“Here, now, don’t you hit my pard!” and the next moment he had grappledwith the doctor and the two were struggling with might and main,trampling the grass and tearing the ground with their heels. Injun Joesprang to his feet, his eyes flaming with passion, snatched up Potter’sknife, and went creeping, catlike and stooping, round and round aboutthe combatants, seeking an opportunity. All at once the doctor flunghimself free, seized the heavy headboard of Williams’ grave and felledPotter to the earth with it—and in the same instant the half-breed sawhis chance and drove the knife to the hilt in the young man’s breast. Hereeled and fell partly upon Potter, flooding him with his blood, and inthe same moment the clouds blotted out the dreadful spectacle and thetwo frightened boys went speeding away in the dark.
Presently, when the moon emerged again, Injun Joe was standing over thetwo forms, contemplating them. The doctor murmured inarticulately, gavea long gasp or two and was still. The half-breed muttered:
“_That_ score is settled—damn you.”
Then he robbed the body. After which he put the fatal knife in Potter’sopen right hand, and sat down on the dismantled coffin. Three—four—fiveminutes passed, and then Potter began to stir and moan. His hand closedupon the knife; he raised it, glanced at it, and let it fall, with ashudder. Then he sat up, pushing the body from him, and gazed at it, andthen around him, confusedly. His eyes met Joe’s.
“Lord, how is this, Joe?” he said.
“It’s a dirty business,” said Joe, without moving.
“What did you do it for?”
“I! I never done it!”
“Look here! That kind of talk won’t wash.”
Potter trembled and grew white.
“I thought I’d got sober. I’d no business to drink to-night. But it’sin my head yet—worse’n when we started here. I’m all in a muddle;can’t recollect anything of it, hardly. Tell me, Joe—_honest_, now,old feller—did I do it? Joe, I never meant to—’pon my soul and honor, Inever meant to, Joe. Tell me how it was, Joe. Oh, it’s awful—and him soyoung and promising.”
“Why, you two was scuffling, and he fetched you one with the headboardand you fell flat; and then up you come, all reeling and staggeringlike, and snatched the knife and jammed it into him, just as he fetchedyou another awful clip—and here you’ve laid, as dead as a wedge tilnow.”
“Oh, I didn’t know what I was a-doing. I wish I may die this minute if Idid. It was all on account of the whiskey and the excitement, I reckon.I never used a weepon in my life before, Joe. I’ve fought, but neverwith weepons. They’ll all say that. Joe, don’t tell! Say you won’t tell,Joe—that’s a good feller. I always liked you, Joe, and stood up for you,too. Don’t you remember? You _won’t_ tell, _will_ you, Joe?” And thepoor creature dropped on his knees before the stolid murderer, andclasped his appealing hands.
“No, you’ve always been fair and square with me, Muff Potter, and Iwon’t go back on you. There, now, that’s as fair as a man can say.”
“Oh, Joe, you’re an angel. I’ll bless you for this the longest day Ilive.” And Potter began to cry.
“Come, now, that’s enough of that. This ain’t any time for blubbering.You be off yonder way and I’ll go this. Move, now, and don’t leave anytracks behind you.”
Potter started on a trot that quickly increased to a run. The half-breedstood looking after him. He muttered:
“If he’s as much stunned with the lick and fuddled with the rum as hehad the look of being, he won’t think of the knife till he’s gone sofar he’ll be afraid to come back after it to such a place byhimself—chicken-heart!”
Two or three minutes later the murdered man, the blanketed corpse, thelidless coffin, and the open grave were under no inspection but themoon’s. The stillness was complete again, too.



CHAPTER X

THE two boys flew on and on, toward the village, speechless withhorror. They glanced backward over their shoulders from time to time,apprehensively, as if they feared they might be followed. Every stumpthat started up in their path seemed a man and an enemy, and made themcatch their breath; and as they sped by some outlying cottages that laynear the village, the barking of the aroused watch-dogs seemed to givewings to their feet.
“If we can only get to the old tannery before we break down!” whisperedTom, in short catches between breaths. “I can’t stand it much longer.”
Huckleberry’s hard pantings were his only reply, and the boys fixedtheir eyes on the goal of their hopes and bent to their work to win it.They gained steadily on it, and at last, breast to breast, they burstthrough the open door and fell grateful and exhausted in the shelteringshadows beyond. By and by their pulses slowed down, and Tom whispered:
“Huckleberry, what do you reckon’ll come of this?”
“If Doctor Robinson dies, I reckon hanging’ll come of it.”
“Do you though?”
“Why, I _know_ it, Tom.”
Tom thought a while, then he said:
“Who’ll tell? We?”
“What are you talking about? S’pose something happened and Injun Joe_didn’t_ hang? Why, he’d kill us some time or other, just as dead sureas we’re a laying here.”
“That’s just what I was thinking to myself, Huck.”
“If anybody tells, let Muff Potter do it, if he’s fool enough. He’sgenerally drunk enough.”
Tom said nothing—went on thinking. Presently he whispered:
“Huck, Muff Potter don’t know it. How can he tell?”
“What’s the reason he don’t know it?”
“Because he’d just got that whack when Injun Joe done it. D’you reckonhe could see anything? D’you reckon he knowed anything?”
“By hokey, that’s so, Tom!”
“And besides, look-a-here—maybe that whack done for _him_!”
“No, ’taint likely, Tom. He had liquor in him; I could see that; andbesides, he always has. Well, when pap’s full, you might take and belthim over the head with a church and you couldn’t phase him. He says so,his own self. So it’s the same with Muff Potter, of course. But if a manwas dead sober, I reckon maybe that whack might fetch him; I dono.”
After another reflective silence, Tom said:
“Hucky, you sure you can keep mum?”
“Tom, we _got_ to keep mum. You know that. That Injun devil wouldn’tmake any more of drownding us than a couple of cats, if we was to squeak’bout this and they didn’t hang him. Now, look-a-here, Tom, less takeand swear to one another—that’s what we got to do—swear to keep mum.”
“I’m agreed. It’s the best thing. Would you just hold hands and swearthat we—”
“Oh no, that wouldn’t do for this. That’s good enough for littlerubbishy common things—specially with gals, cuz _they_ go back on youanyway, and blab if they get in a huff—but there orter be writing ’bouta big thing like this. And blood.”
Tom’s whole being applauded this idea. It was deep, and dark, and awful;the hour, the circumstances, the surroundings, were in keeping with it.He picked up a clean pine shingle that lay in the moon-light, took alittle fragment of “red keel” out of his pocket, got the moon onhis work, and painfully scrawled these lines, emphasizing each slowdown-stroke by clamping his tongue between his teeth, and letting up thepressure on the up-strokes. [See next page.]
“Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer swears they will keep mum about This and Theywish They may Drop down dead in Their Tracks if They ever Tell and Rot.”
Huckleberry was filled with admiration of Tom’s facility in writing, andthe sublimity of his language. He at once took a pin from his lapel andwas going to prick his flesh, but Tom said:
“Hold on! Don’t do that. A pin’s brass. It might have verdigrease onit.”
“What’s verdigrease?”
“It’s p’ison. That’s what it is. You just swaller some of it once—you’llsee.”
So Tom unwound the thread from one of his needles, and each boy prickedthe ball of his thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood. In time, aftermany squeezes, Tom managed to sign his initials, using the ball of hislittle finger for a pen. Then he showed Huckleberry how to make an H andan F, and the oath was complete. They buried the shingle close to thewall, with some dismal ceremonies and incantations, and the fettersthat bound their tongues were considered to be locked and the key thrownaway.
A figure crept stealthily through a break in the other end of the ruinedbuilding, now, but they did not notice it.
“Tom,” whispered Huckleberry, “does this keep us from _ever_telling—_always_?”
“Of course it does. It don’t make any difference _what_ happens, we gotto keep mum. We’d drop down dead—don’t _you_ know that?”
“Yes, I reckon that’s so.”
They continued to whisper for some little time. Presently a dog set upa long, lugubrious howl just outside—within ten feet of them. The boysclasped each other suddenly, in an agony of fright.
“Which of us does he mean?” gasped Huckleberry.
“I dono—peep through the crack. Quick!”
“No, _you_, Tom!”
“I can’t—I can’t _do_ it, Huck!”
“Please, Tom. There ’tis again!”
“Oh, lordy, I’m thankful!” whispered Tom. “I know his voice. It’s BullHarbison.” *
[* If Mr. Harbison owned a slave named Bull, Tom would have spoken ofhim as “Harbison’s Bull,” but a son or a dog of that name was “BullHarbison.”]
“Oh, that’s good—I tell you, Tom, I was most scared to death; I’d a betanything it was a _stray_ dog.”
The dog howled again. The boys’ hearts sank once more.
“Oh, my! that ain’t no Bull Harbison!” whispered Huckleberry. “_Do_,Tom!”
Tom, quaking with fear, yielded, and put his eye to the crack. Hiswhisper was hardly audible when he said:
“Oh, Huck, _its a stray dog_!”
“Quick, Tom, quick! Who does he mean?”
“Huck, he must mean us both—we’re right together.”
“Oh, Tom, I reckon we’re goners. I reckon there ain’t no mistake ’boutwhere _I’ll_ go to. I been so wicked.”
“Dad fetch it! This comes of playing hookey and doing everything afeller’s told _not_ to do. I might a been good, like Sid, if I’d atried—but no, I wouldn’t, of course. But if ever I get off this time,I lay I’ll just _waller_ in Sunday-schools!” And Tom began to snuffle alittle.
“_You_ bad!” and Huckleberry began to snuffle too. “Consound it, TomSawyer, you’re just old pie, ’long-side o’ what I am. Oh, _lordy_,lordy, lordy, I wisht I only had half your chance.”
Tom choked off and whispered:
“Look, Hucky, look! He’s got his _back_ to us!”
Hucky looked, with joy in his heart.
“Well, he has, by jingoes! Did he before?”
“Yes, he did. But I, like a fool, never thought. Oh, this is bully, youknow. _Now_ who can he mean?”
The howling stopped. Tom pricked up his ears.
“Sh! What’s that?” he whispered.
“Sounds like—like hogs grunting. No—it’s somebody snoring, Tom.”
“That _is_ it! Where ’bouts is it, Huck?”
“I bleeve it’s down at ’tother end. Sounds so, anyway. Pap used to sleepthere, sometimes, ’long with the hogs, but laws bless you, he just liftsthings when _he_ snores. Besides, I reckon he ain’t ever coming back tothis town any more.”
The spirit of adventure rose in the boys’ souls once more.
“Hucky, do you das’t to go if I lead?”
“I don’t like to, much. Tom, s’pose it’s Injun Joe!”
Tom quailed. But presently the temptation rose up strong again and theboys agreed to try, with the understanding that they would take to theirheels if the snoring stopped. So they went tiptoeing stealthily down,the one behind the other. When they had got to within five steps of thesnorer, Tom stepped on a stick, and it broke with a sharp snap. The manmoaned, writhed a little, and his face came into the moonlight. It wasMuff Potter. The boys’ hearts had stood still, and their hopes too,when the man moved, but their fears passed away now. They tip-toed out,through the broken weather-boarding, and stopped at a little distanceto exchange a parting word. That long, lugubrious howl rose on the nightair again! They turned and saw the strange dog standing within a fewfeet of where Potter was lying, and _facing_ Potter, with his nosepointing heavenward.
“Oh, geeminy, it’s _him_!” exclaimed both boys, in a breath.
“Say, Tom—they say a stray dog come howling around Johnny Miller’shouse, ’bout midnight, as much as two weeks ago; and a whippoorwill comein and lit on the banisters and sung, the very same evening; and thereain’t anybody dead there yet.”
“Well, I know that. And suppose there ain’t. Didn’t Gracie Miller fallin the kitchen fire and burn herself terrible the very next Saturday?”
“Yes, but she ain’t _dead_. And what’s more, she’s getting better, too.”
“All right, you wait and see. She’s a goner, just as dead sure as MuffPotter’s a goner. That’s what the niggers say, and they know all aboutthese kind of things, Huck.”
Then they separated, cogitating. When Tom crept in at his bedroom windowthe night was almost spent. He undressed with excessive caution, andfell asleep congratulating himself that nobody knew of his escapade. Hewas not aware that the gently-snoring Sid was awake, and had been so foran hour.
When Tom awoke, Sid was dressed and gone. There was a late look in thelight, a late sense in the atmosphere. He was startled. Why had he notbeen called—persecuted till he was up, as usual? The thought filledhim with bodings. Within five minutes he was dressed and down-stairs,feeling sore and drowsy. The family were still at table, but they hadfinished breakfast. There was no voice of rebuke; but there were avertedeyes; there was a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chillto the culprit’s heart. He sat down and tried to seem gay, but itwas up-hill work; it roused no smile, no response, and he lapsed intosilence and let his heart sink down to the depths.
After breakfast his aunt took him aside, and Tom almost brightened inthe hope that he was going to be flogged; but it was not so. His auntwept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so;and finally told him to go on, and ruin himself and bring her gray hairswith sorrow to the grave, for it was no use for her to try any more.This was worse than a thousand whippings, and Tom’s heart was sorer nowthan his body. He cried, he pleaded for forgiveness, promised to reformover and over again, and then received his dismissal, feeling thathe had won but an imperfect forgiveness and established but a feebleconfidence.
He left the presence too miserable to even feel revengeful towardSid; and so the latter’s prompt retreat through the back gate wasunnecessary. He moped to school gloomy and sad, and took his flogging,along with Joe Harper, for playing hookey the day before, with theair of one whose heart was busy with heavier woes and wholly dead totrifles. Then he betook himself to his seat, rested his elbows on hisdesk and his jaws in his hands, and stared at the wall with the stonystare of suffering that has reached the limit and can no further go.His elbow was pressing against some hard substance. After a long timehe slowly and sadly changed his position, and took up this object witha sigh. It was in a paper. He unrolled it. A long, lingering, colossalsigh followed, and his heart broke. It was his brass andiron knob!
This final feather broke the camel’s back.



CHAPTER XI

CLOSE upon the hour of noon the whole village was suddenly electrifiedwith the ghastly news. No need of the as yet un-dreamed-of telegraph;the tale flew from man to man, from group to group, from house to house,with little less than telegraphic speed. Of course the schoolmaster gaveholi-day for that afternoon; the town would have thought strangely ofhim if he had not.
A gory knife had been found close to the murdered man, and it had beenrecognized by somebody as belonging to Muff Potter—so the story ran. Andit was said that a belated citizen had come upon Potter washing himselfin the “branch” about one or two o’clock in the morning, and that Potterhad at once sneaked off—suspicious circumstances, especially the washingwhich was not a habit with Potter. It was also said that the town hadbeen ransacked for this “murderer” (the public are not slow in thematter of sifting evidence and arriving at a verdict), but that hecould not be found. Horsemen had departed down all the roads in everydirection, and the Sheriff “was confident” that he would be capturedbefore night.
All the town was drifting toward the graveyard. Tom’s heartbreakvanished and he joined the procession, not because he would nota thousand times rather go anywhere else, but because an awful,unaccountable fascination drew him on. Arrived at the dreadful place, hewormed his small body through the crowd and saw the dismal spectacle.It seemed to him an age since he was there before. Somebody pinchedhis arm. He turned, and his eyes met Huckleberry’s. Then both lookedelsewhere at once, and wondered if anybody had noticed anything in theirmutual glance. But everybody was talking, and intent upon the grislyspectacle before them.
“Poor fellow!” “Poor young fellow!” “This ought to be a lesson to graverobbers!” “Muff Potter’ll hang for this if they catch him!” This was thedrift of remark; and the minister said, “It was a judgment; His hand ishere.”
Now Tom shivered from head to heel; for his eye fell upon the stolidface of Injun Joe. At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle,and voices shouted, “It’s him! it’s him! he’s coming himself!”
“Who? Who?” from twenty voices.
“Muff Potter!”
“Hallo, he’s stopped!—Look out, he’s turning! Don’t let him get away!”
People in the branches of the trees over Tom’s head said he wasn’ttrying to get away—he only looked doubtful and perplexed.
“Infernal impudence!” said a bystander; “wanted to come and take a quietlook at his work, I reckon—didn’t expect any company.”
The crowd fell apart, now, and the Sheriff came through, ostentatiouslyleading Potter by the arm. The poor fellow’s face was haggard, andhis eyes showed the fear that was upon him. When he stood before themurdered man, he shook as with a palsy, and he put his face in his handsand burst into tears.
“I didn’t do it, friends,” he sobbed; “’pon my word and honor I neverdone it.”
“Who’s accused you?” shouted a voice.
This shot seemed to carry home. Potter lifted his face and looked aroundhim with a pathetic hopelessness in his eyes. He saw Injun Joe, andexclaimed:
“Oh, Injun Joe, you promised me you’d never—”
“Is that your knife?” and it was thrust before him by the Sheriff.
Potter would have fallen if they had not caught him and eased him to theground. Then he said:
“Something told me ’t if I didn’t come back and get—” He shuddered; thenwaved his nerveless hand with a vanquished gesture and said, “Tell ’em,Joe, tell ’em—it ain’t any use any more.”
Then Huckleberry and Tom stood dumb and staring, and heard thestony-hearted liar reel off his serene statement, they expecting everymoment that the clear sky would deliver God’s lightnings upon his head,and wondering to see how long the stroke was delayed. And when he hadfinished and still stood alive and whole, their wavering impulse tobreak their oath and save the poor betrayed prisoner’s life faded andvanished away, for plainly this miscreant had sold himself to Satan andit would be fatal to meddle with the property of such a power as that.
“Why didn’t you leave? What did you want to come here for?” somebodysaid.
“I couldn’t help it—I couldn’t help it,” Potter moaned. “I wanted torun away, but I couldn’t seem to come anywhere but here.” And he fell tosobbing again.
Injun Joe repeated his statement, just as calmly, a few minutesafterward on the inquest, under oath; and the boys, seeing that thelightnings were still withheld, were confirmed in their belief thatJoe had sold himself to the devil. He was now become, to them, the mostbalefully interesting object they had ever looked upon, and they couldnot take their fascinated eyes from his face.
They inwardly resolved to watch him nights, when opportunity shouldoffer, in the hope of getting a glimpse of his dread master.
Injun Joe helped to raise the body of the murdered man and put it ina wagon for removal; and it was whispered through the shudderingcrowd that the wound bled a little! The boys thought that this happycircumstance would turn suspicion in the right direction; but they weredisappointed, for more than one villager remarked:
“It was within three feet of Muff Potter when it done it.”
Tom’s fearful secret and gnawing conscience disturbed his sleep for asmuch as a week after this; and at breakfast one morning Sid said:
“Tom, you pitch around and talk in your sleep so much that you keep meawake half the time.”
Tom blanched and dropped his eyes.
“It’s a bad sign,” said Aunt Polly, gravely. “What you got on your mind,Tom?”
“Nothing. Nothing ’t I know of.” But the boy’s hand shook so that hespilled his coffee.
“And you do talk such stuff,” Sid said. “Last night you said, ‘It’sblood, it’s blood, that’s what it is!’ You said that over and over.And you said, ‘Don’t torment me so—I’ll tell!’ Tell _what_? What is ityou’ll tell?”
Everything was swimming before Tom. There is no telling what might havehappened, now, but luckily the concern passed out of Aunt Polly’s faceand she came to Tom’s relief without knowing it. She said:
“Sho! It’s that dreadful murder. I dream about it most every nightmyself. Sometimes I dream it’s me that done it.”
Mary said she had been affected much the same way. Sid seemed satisfied.Tom got out of the presence as quick as he plausibly could, and afterthat he complained of toothache for a week, and tied up his jaws everynight. He never knew that Sid lay nightly watching, and frequentlyslipped the bandage free and then leaned on his elbow listening a goodwhile at a time, and afterward slipped the bandage back to its placeagain. Tom’s distress of mind wore off gradually and the toothache grewirksome and was discarded. If Sid really managed to make anything out ofTom’s disjointed mutterings, he kept it to himself.
It seemed to Tom that his schoolmates never would get done holdinginquests on dead cats, and thus keeping his trouble present to his mind.Sid noticed that Tom never was coroner at one of these inquiries,though it had been his habit to take the lead in all new enterprises;he noticed, too, that Tom never acted as a witness—and that was strange;and Sid did not overlook the fact that Tom even showed a marked aversionto these inquests, and always avoided them when he could. Sid marvelled,but said nothing. However, even inquests went out of vogue at last, andceased to torture Tom’s conscience.
Every day or two, during this time of sorrow, Tom watched hisopportunity and went to the little grated jail-window and smuggled suchsmall comforts through to the “murderer” as he could get hold of. Thejail was a trifling little brick den that stood in a marsh at the edgeof the village, and no guards were afforded for it; indeed, itwas seldom occupied. These offerings greatly helped to ease Tom’sconscience.
The villagers had a strong desire to tar-and-feather Injun Joe and ridehim on a rail, for body-snatching, but so formidable was his characterthat nobody could be found who was willing to take the lead in thematter, so it was dropped. He had been careful to begin both of hisinquest-statements with the fight, without confessing the grave-robberythat preceded it; therefore it was deemed wisest not to try the case inthe courts at present.



CHAPTER XII

ONE of the reasons why Tom’s mind had drifted away from its secrettroubles was, that it had found a new and weighty matter to interestitself about. Becky Thatcher had stopped coming to school. Tom hadstruggled with his pride a few days, and tried to “whistle her down thewind,” but failed. He began to find himself hanging around her father’shouse, nights, and feeling very miserable. She was ill. What if sheshould die! There was distraction in the thought. He no longer took aninterest in war, nor even in piracy. The charm of life was gone; therewas nothing but dreariness left. He put his hoop away, and his bat;there was no joy in them any more. His aunt was concerned. She began totry all manner of remedies on him. She was one of those people whoare infatuated with patent medicines and all new-fangled methods ofproducing health or mending it. She was an inveterate experimenter inthese things. When something fresh in this line came out she was in afever, right away, to try it; not on herself, for she was never ailing,but on anybody else that came handy. She was a subscriber for all the“Health” periodicals and phrenological frauds; and the solemn ignorancethey were inflated with was breath to her nostrils. All the “rot” theycontained about ventilation, and how to go to bed, and how to get up,and what to eat, and what to drink, and how much exercise to take, andwhat frame of mind to keep one’s self in, and what sort of clothingto wear, was all gospel to her, and she never observed that herhealth-journals of the current month customarily upset everything theyhad recommended the month before. She was as simple-hearted and honestas the day was long, and so she was an easy victim. She gatheredtogether her quack periodicals and her quack medicines, and thus armedwith death, went about on her pale horse, metaphorically speaking, with“hell following after.” But she never suspected that she was not anangel of healing and the balm of Gilead in disguise, to the sufferingneighbors.
The water treatment was new, now, and Tom’s low condition was a windfallto her. She had him out at daylight every morning, stood him up in thewood-shed and drowned him with a deluge of cold water; then she scrubbedhim down with a towel like a file, and so brought him to; then sherolled him up in a wet sheet and put him away under blankets till shesweated his soul clean and “the yellow stains of it came through hispores”—as Tom said.
Yet notwithstanding all this, the boy grew more and more melancholy andpale and dejected. She added hot baths, sitz baths, shower baths, andplunges. The boy remained as dismal as a hearse. She began to assist thewater with a slim oatmeal diet and blister-plasters. She calculated hiscapacity as she would a jug’s, and filled him up every day with quackcure-alls.
Tom had become indifferent to persecution by this time. This phasefilled the old lady’s heart with consternation. This indifference mustbe broken up at any cost. Now she heard of Pain-killer for the firsttime. She ordered a lot at once. She tasted it and was filled withgratitude. It was simply fire in a liquid form. She dropped the watertreatment and everything else, and pinned her faith to Pain-killer.She gave Tom a teaspoonful and watched with the deepest anxiety for theresult. Her troubles were instantly at rest, her soul at peace again;for the “indifference” was broken up. The boy could not have shown awilder, heartier interest, if she had built a fire under him.
Tom felt that it was time to wake up; this sort of life might beromantic enough, in his blighted condition, but it was getting to havetoo little sentiment and too much distracting variety about it. So hethought over various plans for relief, and finally hit upon that ofprofessing to be fond of Pain-killer. He asked for it so often that hebecame a nuisance, and his aunt ended by telling him to help himself andquit bothering her. If it had been Sid, she would have had no misgivingsto alloy her delight; but since it was Tom, she watched the bottleclandestinely. She found that the medicine did really diminish, but itdid not occur to her that the boy was mending the health of a crack inthe sitting-room floor with it.
One day Tom was in the act of dosing the crack when his aunt’s yellowcat came along, purring, eyeing the teaspoon avariciously, and beggingfor a taste. Tom said:
“Don’t ask for it unless you want it, Peter.”
But Peter signified that he did want it.
“You better make sure.”
Peter was sure.
“Now you’ve asked for it, and I’ll give it to you, because there ain’tanything mean about me; but if you find you don’t like it, you mustn’tblame anybody but your own self.”
Peter was agreeable. So Tom pried his mouth open and poured downthe Pain-killer. Peter sprang a couple of yards in the air, and thendelivered a war-whoop and set off round and round the room, bangingagainst furniture, upsetting flower-pots, and making general havoc. Nexthe rose on his hind feet and pranced around, in a frenzy of enjoyment,with his head over his shoulder and his voice proclaiming hisunappeasable happiness. Then he went tearing around the house againspreading chaos and destruction in his path. Aunt Polly entered in timeto see him throw a few double summersets, deliver a final mighty hurrah,and sail through the open window, carrying the rest of the flower-potswith him. The old lady stood petrified with astonishment, peering overher glasses; Tom lay on the floor expiring with laughter.
“Tom, what on earth ails that cat?”
“I don’t know, aunt,” gasped the boy.
“Why, I never see anything like it. What did make him act so?”
“Deed I don’t know, Aunt Polly; cats always act so when they’re having agood time.”
“They do, do they?” There was something in the tone that made Tomapprehensive.
“Yes’m. That is, I believe they do.”
“You _do_?”
“Yes’m.”
The old lady was bending down, Tom watching, with interest emphasizedby anxiety. Too late he divined her “drift.” The handle of the telltaletea-spoon was visible under the bed-valance. Aunt Polly took it, held itup. Tom winced, and dropped his eyes. Aunt Polly raised him by the usualhandle—his ear—and cracked his head soundly with her thimble.
“Now, sir, what did you want to treat that poor dumb beast so, for?”
“I done it out of pity for him—because he hadn’t any aunt.”
“Hadn’t any aunt!—you numskull. What has that got to do with it?”
“Heaps. Because if he’d had one she’d a burnt him out herself! She’d aroasted his bowels out of him ’thout any more feeling than if he was ahuman!”
Aunt Polly felt a sudden pang of remorse. This was putting the thing ina new light; what was cruelty to a cat _might_ be cruelty to a boy, too.She began to soften; she felt sorry. Her eyes watered a little, and sheput her hand on Tom’s head and said gently:
“I was meaning for the best, Tom. And, Tom, it _did_ do you good.”
Tom looked up in her face with just a perceptible twinkle peepingthrough his gravity.
“I know you was meaning for the best, aunty, and so was I with Peter. Itdone _him_ good, too. I never see him get around so since—”
“Oh, go ’long with you, Tom, before you aggravate me again. And you tryand see if you can’t be a good boy, for once, and you needn’t take anymore medicine.”
Tom reached school ahead of time. It was noticed that this strange thinghad been occurring every day latterly. And now, as usual of late,he hung about the gate of the schoolyard instead of playing with hiscomrades. He was sick, he said, and he looked it. He tried to seem tobe looking everywhere but whither he really was looking—down the road.Presently Jeff Thatcher hove in sight, and Tom’s face lighted; he gazeda moment, and then turned sorrowfully away. When Jeff arrived, Tomaccosted him; and “led up” warily to opportunities for remark aboutBecky, but the giddy lad never could see the bait. Tom watched andwatched, hoping whenever a frisking frock came in sight, and hating theowner of it as soon as he saw she was not the right one. At last frocksceased to appear, and he dropped hopelessly into the dumps; he enteredthe empty schoolhouse and sat down to suffer. Then one more frock passedin at the gate, and Tom’s heart gave a great bound. The next instant hewas out, and “going on” like an Indian; yelling, laughing, chasing boys,jumping over the fence at risk of life and limb, throwing handsprings,standing on his head—doing all the heroic things he could conceive of,and keeping a furtive eye out, all the while, to see if Becky Thatcherwas noticing. But she seemed to be unconscious of it all; she neverlooked. Could it be possible that she was not aware that he was there?He carried his exploits to her immediate vicinity; came war-whoopingaround, snatched a boy’s cap, hurled it to the roof of the schoolhouse,broke through a group of boys, tumbling them in every direction, andfell sprawling, himself, under Becky’s nose, almost upsetting her—andshe turned, with her nose in the air, and he heard her say: “Mf! somepeople think they’re mighty smart—always showing off!”
Tom’s cheeks burned. He gathered himself up and sneaked off, crushed andcrestfallen.



CHAPTER XIII

TOM’S mind was made up now. He was gloomy and desperate. He was aforsaken, friendless boy, he said; nobody loved him; when they found outwhat they had driven him to, perhaps they would be sorry; he had triedto do right and get along, but they would not let him; since nothingwould do them but to be rid of him, let it be so; and let them blame_him_ for the consequences—why shouldn’t they? What right had thefriendless to complain? Yes, they had forced him to it at last: he wouldlead a life of crime. There was no choice.
By this time he was far down Meadow Lane, and the bell for school to“take up” tinkled faintly upon his ear. He sobbed, now, to think heshould never, never hear that old familiar sound any more—it was veryhard, but it was forced on him; since he was driven out into the coldworld, he must submit—but he forgave them. Then the sobs came thick andfast.
Just at this point he met his soul’s sworn comrade, JoeHarper—hard-eyed, and with evidently a great and dismal purpose in hisheart. Plainly here were “two souls with but a single thought.” Tom,wiping his eyes with his sleeve, began to blubber out something abouta resolution to escape from hard usage and lack of sympathy at home byroaming abroad into the great world never to return; and ended by hopingthat Joe would not forget him.
But it transpired that this was a request which Joe had just been goingto make of Tom, and had come to hunt him up for that purpose. His motherhad whipped him for drinking some cream which he had never tasted andknew nothing about; it was plain that she was tired of him and wishedhim to go; if she felt that way, there was nothing for him to do butsuccumb; he hoped she would be happy, and never regret having driven herpoor boy out into the unfeeling world to suffer and die.
As the two boys walked sorrowing along, they made a new compact to standby each other and be brothers and never separate till death relievedthem of their troubles. Then they began to lay their plans. Joe was forbeing a hermit, and living on crusts in a remote cave, and dying,some time, of cold and want and grief; but after listening to Tom, heconceded that there were some conspicuous advantages about a life ofcrime, and so he consented to be a pirate.
Three miles below St. Petersburg, at a point where the Mississippi Riverwas a trifle over a mile wide, there was a long, narrow, wooded island,with a shallow bar at the head of it, and this offered well as arendezvous. It was not inhabited; it lay far over toward the furthershore, abreast a dense and almost wholly unpeopled forest. So Jackson’sIsland was chosen. Who were to be the subjects of their piracies was amatter that did not occur to them. Then they hunted up Huckleberry Finn,and he joined them promptly, for all careers were one to him; he wasindifferent. They presently separated to meet at a lonely spot on theriver-bank two miles above the village at the favorite hour—which wasmidnight. There was a small log raft there which they meant to capture.Each would bring hooks and lines, and such provision as he could stealin the most dark and mysterious way—as became outlaws. And before theafternoon was done, they had all managed to enjoy the sweet glory ofspreading the fact that pretty soon the town would “hear something.” Allwho got this vague hint were cautioned to “be mum and wait.”
About midnight Tom arrived with a boiled ham and a few trifles,and stopped in a dense undergrowth on a small bluff overlooking themeeting-place. It was starlight, and very still. The mighty river laylike an ocean at rest. Tom listened a moment, but no sound disturbed thequiet. Then he gave a low, distinct whistle. It was answered from underthe bluff. Tom whistled twice more; these signals were answered in thesame way. Then a guarded voice said:
“Who goes there?”
“Tom Sawyer, the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main. Name your names.”
“Huck Finn the Red-Handed, and Joe Harper the Terror of the Seas.” Tomhad furnished these titles, from his favorite literature.
“’Tis well. Give the countersign.”
Two hoarse whispers delivered the same awful word simultaneously to thebrooding night:
“_Blood_!”
Then Tom tumbled his ham over the bluff and let himself down after it,tearing both skin and clothes to some extent in the effort. There wasan easy, comfortable path along the shore under the bluff, but it lackedthe advantages of difficulty and danger so valued by a pirate.
The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon, and had about wornhimself out with getting it there. Finn the Red-Handed had stolen askillet and a quantity of half-cured leaf tobacco, and had also broughta few corn-cobs to make pipes with. But none of the pirates smoked or“chewed” but himself. The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main said itwould never do to start without some fire. That was a wise thought;matches were hardly known there in that day. They saw a fire smoulderingupon a great raft a hundred yards above, and they went stealthilythither and helped themselves to a chunk. They made an imposingadventure of it, saying, “Hist!” every now and then, and suddenlyhalting with finger on lip; moving with hands on imaginary dagger-hilts;and giving orders in dismal whispers that if “the foe” stirred, to “lethim have it to the hilt,” because “dead men tell no tales.” They knewwell enough that the raftsmen were all down at the village layingin stores or having a spree, but still that was no excuse for theirconducting this thing in an unpiratical way.
They shoved off, presently, Tom in command, Huck at the after oar andJoe at the forward. Tom stood amidships, gloomy-browed, and with foldedarms, and gave his orders in a low, stern whisper:
“Luff, and bring her to the wind!”
“Aye-aye, sir!”
“Steady, steady-y-y-y!”
“Steady it is, sir!”
“Let her go off a point!”
“Point it is, sir!”
As the boys steadily and monotonously drove the raft toward mid-streamit was no doubt understood that these orders were given only for“style,” and were not intended to mean anything in particular.
“What sail’s she carrying?”
“Courses, tops’ls, and flying-jib, sir.”
“Send the r’yals up! Lay out aloft, there, half a dozen ofye—foretopmaststuns’l! Lively, now!”
“Aye-aye, sir!”
“Shake out that maintogalans’l! Sheets and braces! _now_ my hearties!”
“Aye-aye, sir!”
“Hellum-a-lee—hard a port! Stand by to meet her when she comes! Port,port! _Now_, men! With a will! Stead-y-y-y!”
“Steady it is, sir!”
The raft drew beyond the middle of the river; the boys pointed her headright, and then lay on their oars. The river was not high, so there wasnot more than a two or three mile current. Hardly a word was said duringthe next three-quarters of an hour. Now the raft was passing beforethe distant town. Two or three glimmering lights showed where it lay,peacefully sleeping, beyond the vague vast sweep of star-gemmed water,unconscious of the tremendous event that was happening. The BlackAvenger stood still with folded arms, “looking his last” upon the sceneof his former joys and his later sufferings, and wishing “she” could seehim now, abroad on the wild sea, facing peril and death with dauntlessheart, going to his doom with a grim smile on his lips. It was buta small strain on his imagination to remove Jackson’s Island beyondeye-shot of the village, and so he “looked his last” with a broken andsatisfied heart. The other pirates were looking their last, too; andthey all looked so long that they came near letting the current driftthem out of the range of the island. But they discovered the danger intime, and made shift to avert it. About two o’clock in the morning theraft grounded on the bar two hundred yards above the head of the island,and they waded back and forth until they had landed their freight. Partof the little raft’s belongings consisted of an old sail, and this theyspread over a nook in the bushes for a tent to shelter their provisions;but they themselves would sleep in the open air in good weather, asbecame outlaws.
They built a fire against the side of a great log twenty or thirty stepswithin the sombre depths of the forest, and then cooked some bacon inthe frying-pan for supper, and used up half of the corn “pone” stockthey had brought. It seemed glorious sport to be feasting in that wild,free way in the virgin forest of an unexplored and uninhabited island,far from the haunts of men, and they said they never would return tocivilization. The climbing fire lit up their faces and threw its ruddyglare upon the pillared tree-trunks of their forest temple, and upon thevarnished foliage and festooning vines.
When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone, and the last allowanceof corn pone devoured, the boys stretched themselves out on the grass,filled with contentment. They could have found a cooler place, butthey would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roastingcampfire.
“_Ain’t_ it gay?” said Joe.
“It’s _nuts_!” said Tom. “What would the boys say if they could see us?”
“Say? Well, they’d just die to be here—hey, Hucky!”
“I reckon so,” said Huckleberry; “anyways, I’m suited. I don’t wantnothing better’n this. I don’t ever get enough to eat, gen’ally—and herethey can’t come and pick at a feller and bullyrag him so.”
“It’s just the life for me,” said Tom. “You don’t have to get up,mornings, and you don’t have to go to school, and wash, and all thatblame foolishness. You see a pirate don’t have to do _anything_, Joe,when he’s ashore, but a hermit _he_ has to be praying considerable, andthen he don’t have any fun, anyway, all by himself that way.”
“Oh yes, that’s so,” said Joe, “but I hadn’t thought much about it, youknow. I’d a good deal rather be a pirate, now that I’ve tried it.”
“You see,” said Tom, “people don’t go much on hermits, nowadays, likethey used to in old times, but a pirate’s always respected. Anda hermit’s got to sleep on the hardest place he can find, and putsackcloth and ashes on his head, and stand out in the rain, and—”
“What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for?” inquired Huck.
“I dono. But they’ve _got_ to do it. Hermits always do. You’d have to dothat if you was a hermit.”
“Dern’d if I would,” said Huck.
“Well, what would you do?”
“I dono. But I wouldn’t do that.”
“Why, Huck, you’d _have_ to. How’d you get around it?”
“Why, I just wouldn’t stand it. I’d run away.”
“Run away! Well, you _would_ be a nice old slouch of a hermit. You’d bea disgrace.”
The Red-Handed made no response, being better employed. He had finishedgouging out a cob, and now he fitted a weed stem to it, loaded it withtobacco, and was pressing a coal to the charge and blowing a cloud offragrant smoke—he was in the full bloom of luxurious contentment. Theother pirates envied him this majestic vice, and secretly resolved toacquire it shortly. Presently Huck said:
“What does pirates have to do?”
Tom said:
“Oh, they have just a bully time—take ships and burn them, and get themoney and bury it in awful places in their island where there’s ghostsand things to watch it, and kill everybody in the ships—make ’em walk aplank.”
“And they carry the women to the island,” said Joe; “they don’t kill thewomen.”
“No,” assented Tom, “they don’t kill the women—they’re too noble. Andthe women’s always beautiful, too.
“And don’t they wear the bulliest clothes! Oh no! All gold and silverand di’monds,” said Joe, with enthusiasm.
“Who?” said Huck.
“Why, the pirates.”
Huck scanned his own clothing forlornly.
“I reckon I ain’t dressed fitten for a pirate,” said he, with aregretful pathos in his voice; “but I ain’t got none but these.”
But the other boys told him the fine clothes would come fast enough,after they should have begun their adventures. They made him understandthat his poor rags would do to begin with, though it was customary forwealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe.
Gradually their talk died out and drowsiness began to steal upon theeyelids of the little waifs. The pipe dropped from the fingers of theRed-Handed, and he slept the sleep of the conscience-free and the weary.The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main hadmore difficulty in getting to sleep. They said their prayers inwardly,and lying down, since there was nobody there with authority to make themkneel and recite aloud; in truth, they had a mind not to say them atall, but they were afraid to proceed to such lengths as that, lest theymight call down a sudden and special thunderbolt from heaven. Then atonce they reached and hovered upon the imminent verge of sleep—but anintruder came, now, that would not “down.” It was conscience. They beganto feel a vague fear that they had been doing wrong to run away; andnext they thought of the stolen meat, and then the real torture came.They tried to argue it away by reminding conscience that they hadpurloined sweetmeats and apples scores of times; but conscience was notto be appeased by such thin plausibilities; it seemed to them, in theend, that there was no getting around the stubborn fact that takingsweetmeats was only “hooking,” while taking bacon and hams and suchvaluables was plain simple stealing—and there was a command against thatin the Bible. So they inwardly resolved that so long as they remained inthe business, their piracies should not again be sullied with thecrime of stealing. Then conscience granted a truce, and these curiouslyinconsistent pirates fell peacefully to sleep.



CHAPTER XIV

WHEN Tom awoke in the morning, he wondered where he was. He sat up andrubbed his eyes and looked around. Then he comprehended. It was the coolgray dawn, and there was a delicious sense of repose and peace in thedeep pervading calm and silence of the woods. Not a leaf stirred; nota sound obtruded upon great Nature’s meditation. Beaded dewdrops stoodupon the leaves and grasses. A white layer of ashes covered the fire,and a thin blue breath of smoke rose straight into the air. Joe and Huckstill slept.
Now, far away in the woods a bird called; another answered; presentlythe hammering of a woodpecker was heard. Gradually the cool dim grayof the morning whitened, and as gradually sounds multiplied and lifemanifested itself. The marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and goingto work unfolded itself to the musing boy. A little green worm camecrawling over a dewy leaf, lifting two-thirds of his body into the airfrom time to time and “sniffing around,” then proceeding again—for hewas measuring, Tom said; and when the worm approached him, of its ownaccord, he sat as still as a stone, with his hopes rising and falling,by turns, as the creature still came toward him or seemed inclined togo elsewhere; and when at last it considered a painful moment with itscurved body in the air and then came decisively down upon Tom’s leg andbegan a journey over him, his whole heart was glad—for that meant thathe was going to have a new suit of clothes—without the shadow of adoubt a gaudy piratical uniform. Now a procession of ants appeared,from nowhere in particular, and went about their labors; one struggledmanfully by with a dead spider five times as big as itself in its arms,and lugged it straight up a tree-trunk. A brown spotted lady-bug climbedthe dizzy height of a grass blade, and Tom bent down close to it andsaid, “Lady-bug, lady-bug, fly away home, your house is on fire, yourchildren’s alone,” and she took wing and went off to see about it—whichdid not surprise the boy, for he knew of old that this insect wascredulous about conflagrations, and he had practised upon its simplicitymore than once. A tumblebug came next, heaving sturdily at its ball, andTom touched the creature, to see it shut its legs against its bodyand pretend to be dead. The birds were fairly rioting by this time. Acatbird, the Northern mocker, lit in a tree over Tom’s head, and trilledout her imitations of her neighbors in a rapture of enjoyment; thena shrill jay swept down, a flash of blue flame, and stopped on a twigalmost within the boy’s reach, cocked his head to one side and eyed thestrangers with a consuming curiosity; a gray squirrel and a big fellowof the “fox” kind came skurrying along, sitting up at intervals toinspect and chatter at the boys, for the wild things had probably neverseen a human being before and scarcely knew whether to be afraid or not.All Nature was wide awake and stirring, now; long lances of sunlightpierced down through the dense foliage far and near, and a fewbutterflies came fluttering upon the scene.
Tom stirred up the other pirates and they all clattered away witha shout, and in a minute or two were stripped and chasing after andtumbling over each other in the shallow limpid water of the whitesandbar. They felt no longing for the little village sleeping in thedistance beyond the majestic waste of water. A vagrant current or aslight rise in the river had carried off their raft, but this onlygratified them, since its going was something like burning the bridgebetween them and civilization.
They came back to camp wonderfully refreshed, glad-hearted, andravenous; and they soon had the camp-fire blazing up again. Huck found aspring of clear cold water close by, and the boys made cups of broad oakor hickory leaves, and felt that water, sweetened with such a wildwoodcharm as that, would be a good enough substitute for coffee. While Joewas slicing bacon for breakfast, Tom and Huck asked him to hold on aminute; they stepped to a promising nook in the river-bank and threw intheir lines; almost immediately they had reward. Joe had not had timeto get impatient before they were back again with some handsome bass,a couple of sun-perch and a small catfish—provisions enough for quite afamily. They fried the fish with the bacon, and were astonished; forno fish had ever seemed so delicious before. They did not know that thequicker a fresh-water fish is on the fire after he is caught the betterhe is; and they reflected little upon what a sauce open-air sleeping,open-air exercise, bathing, and a large ingredient of hunger make, too.
They lay around in the shade, after breakfast, while Huck had a smoke,and then went off through the woods on an exploring expedition. Theytramped gayly along, over decaying logs, through tangled underbrush,among solemn monarchs of the forest, hung from their crowns to theground with a drooping regalia of grape-vines. Now and then they cameupon snug nooks carpeted with grass and jeweled with flowers.
They found plenty of things to be delighted with, but nothing to beastonished at. They discovered that the island was about three mileslong and a quarter of a mile wide, and that the shore it lay closest towas only separated from it by a narrow channel hardly two hundred yardswide. They took a swim about every hour, so it was close upon the middleof the afternoon when they got back to camp. They were too hungry tostop to fish, but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham, and then threwthemselves down in the shade to talk. But the talk soon began to drag,and then died. The stillness, the solemnity that brooded in the woods,and the sense of loneliness, began to tell upon the spirits of the boys.They fell to thinking. A sort of undefined longing crept upon them. Thistook dim shape, presently—it was budding homesickness. Even Finn theRed-Handed was dreaming of his doorsteps and empty hogsheads. But theywere all ashamed of their weakness, and none was brave enough to speakhis thought.
For some time, now, the boys had been dully conscious of a peculiarsound in the distance, just as one sometimes is of the ticking of aclock which he takes no distinct note of. But now this mysterious soundbecame more pronounced, and forced a recognition. The boys started,glanced at each other, and then each assumed a listening attitude. Therewas a long silence, profound and unbroken; then a deep, sullen boom camefloating down out of the distance.
“What is it!” exclaimed Joe, under his breath.
“I wonder,” said Tom in a whisper.
“’Tain’t thunder,” said Huckleberry, in an awed tone, “becuz thunder—”
“Hark!” said Tom. “Listen—don’t talk.”
They waited a time that seemed an age, and then the same muffled boomtroubled the solemn hush.
“Let’s go and see.”
They sprang to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the town. Theyparted the bushes on the bank and peered out over the water. The littlesteam ferry-boat was about a mile below the village, drifting with thecurrent. Her broad deck seemed crowded with people. There were a greatmany skiffs rowing about or floating with the stream in the neighborhoodof the ferryboat, but the boys could not determine what the men inthem were doing. Presently a great jet of white smoke burst from theferryboat’s side, and as it expanded and rose in a lazy cloud, that samedull throb of sound was borne to the listeners again.
“I know now!” exclaimed Tom; “somebody’s drownded!”
“That’s it!” said Huck; “they done that last summer, when Bill Turnergot drownded; they shoot a cannon over the water, and that makeshim come up to the top. Yes, and they take loaves of bread and putquicksilver in ’em and set ’em afloat, and wherever there’s anybodythat’s drownded, they’ll float right there and stop.”
“Yes, I’ve heard about that,” said Joe. “I wonder what makes the breaddo that.”
“Oh, it ain’t the bread, so much,” said Tom; “I reckon it’s mostly whatthey _say_ over it before they start it out.”
“But they don’t say anything over it,” said Huck. “I’ve seen ’em andthey don’t.”
“Well, that’s funny,” said Tom. “But maybe they say it to themselves. Of_course_ they do. Anybody might know that.”
The other boys agreed that there was reason in what Tom said, becausean ignorant lump of bread, uninstructed by an incantation, could notbe expected to act very intelligently when set upon an errand of suchgravity.
“By jings, I wish I was over there, now,” said Joe.
“I do too” said Huck “I’d give heaps to know who it is.”
The boys still listened and watched. Presently a revealing thoughtflashed through Tom’s mind, and he exclaimed:
“Boys, I know who’s drownded—it’s us!”
They felt like heroes in an instant. Here was a gorgeous triumph; theywere missed; they were mourned; hearts were breaking on their account;tears were being shed; accusing memories of unkindness to these poorlost lads were rising up, and unavailing regrets and remorse were beingindulged; and best of all, the departed were the talk of the whole town,and the envy of all the boys, as far as this dazzling notoriety wasconcerned. This was fine. It was worth while to be a pirate, after all.
As twilight drew on, the ferryboat went back to her accustomed businessand the skiffs disappeared. The pirates returned to camp. They werejubilant with vanity over their new grandeur and the illustrious troublethey were making. They caught fish, cooked supper and ate it, and thenfell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them;and the pictures they drew of the public distress on their account weregratifying to look upon—from their point of view. But when the shadowsof night closed them in, they gradually ceased to talk, and sat gazinginto the fire, with their minds evidently wandering elsewhere. Theexcitement was gone, now, and Tom and Joe could not keep back thoughtsof certain persons at home who were not enjoying this fine frolic asmuch as they were. Misgivings came; they grew troubled and unhappy; asigh or two escaped, unawares. By and by Joe timidly ventured upon aroundabout “feeler” as to how the others might look upon a return tocivilization—not right now, but—
Tom withered him with derision! Huck, being uncommitted as yet, joinedin with Tom, and the waverer quickly “explained,” and was glad to getout of the scrape with as little taint of chicken-hearted home-sicknessclinging to his garments as he could. Mutiny was effectually laid torest for the moment.
As the night deepened, Huck began to nod, and presently to snore.Joe followed next. Tom lay upon his elbow motionless, for some time,watching the two intently. At last he got up cautiously, on his knees,and went searching among the grass and the flickering reflections flungby the campfire. He picked up and inspected several large semi-cylindersof the thin white bark of a sycamore, and finally chose two which seemedto suit him. Then he knelt by the fire and painfully wrote somethingupon each of these with his “red keel”; one he rolled up and put in hisjacket pocket, and the other he put in Joe’s hat and removed it to alittle distance from the owner. And he also put into the hat certainschoolboy treasures of almost inestimable value—among them a lump ofchalk, an India-rubber ball, three fishhooks, and one of that kindof marbles known as a “sure ’nough crystal.” Then he tiptoed his waycautiously among the trees till he felt that he was out of hearing, andstraightway broke into a keen run in the direction of the sandbar.



CHAPTER XV

A few minutes later Tom was in the shoal water of the bar, wading towardthe Illinois shore. Before the depth reached his middle he was halfwayover; the current would permit no more wading, now, so he struck outconfidently to swim the remaining hundred yards. He swam quarteringupstream, but still was swept downward rather faster than he hadexpected. However, he reached the shore finally, and drifted along tillhe found a low place and drew himself out. He put his hand on his jacketpocket, found his piece of bark safe, and then struck through the woods,following the shore, with streaming garments. Shortly before teno’clock he came out into an open place opposite the village, and saw theferryboat lying in the shadow of the trees and the high bank. Everythingwas quiet under the blinking stars. He crept down the bank, watchingwith all his eyes, slipped into the water, swam three or four strokesand climbed into the skiff that did “yawl” duty at the boat’s stern. Helaid himself down under the thwarts and waited, panting.
Presently the cracked bell tapped and a voice gave the order to “castoff.” A minute or two later the skiff’s head was standing high up,against the boat’s swell, and the voyage was begun. Tom felt happy inhis success, for he knew it was the boat’s last trip for the night. Atthe end of a long twelve or fifteen minutes the wheels stopped, andTom slipped overboard and swam ashore in the dusk, landing fifty yardsdownstream, out of danger of possible stragglers.
He flew along unfrequented alleys, and shortly found himself at hisaunt’s back fence. He climbed over, approached the “ell,” and lookedin at the sitting-room window, for a light was burning there. Theresat Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, and Joe Harper’s mother, grouped together,talking. They were by the bed, and the bed was between them and thedoor. Tom went to the door and began to softly lift the latch; thenhe pressed gently and the door yielded a crack; he continued pushingcautiously, and quaking every time it creaked, till he judged he mightsqueeze through on his knees; so he put his head through and began,warily.
“What makes the candle blow so?” said Aunt Polly. Tom hurried up. “Why,that door’s open, I believe. Why, of course it is. No end of strangethings now. Go ’long and shut it, Sid.”
Tom disappeared under the bed just in time. He lay and “breathed” himself for a time, and then crept to where he could almost touch hisaunt’s foot.
“But as I was saying,” said Aunt Polly, “he warn’t _bad_, so to say—onlymisch_ee_vous. Only just giddy, and harum-scarum, you know. He warn’tany more responsible than a colt. _He_ never meant any harm, and he wasthe best-hearted boy that ever was”—and she began to cry.
“It was just so with my Joe—always full of his devilment, and up toevery kind of mischief, but he was just as unselfish and kind as hecould be—and laws bless me, to think I went and whipped him for takingthat cream, never once recollecting that I throwed it out myself becauseit was sour, and I never to see him again in this world, never, never,never, poor abused boy!” And Mrs. Harper sobbed as if her heart wouldbreak.
“I hope Tom’s better off where he is,” said Sid, “but if he’d beenbetter in some ways—”
“_Sid!_” Tom felt the glare of the old lady’s eye, though he could notsee it. “Not a word against my Tom, now that he’s gone! God’ll take careof _him_—never you trouble _your_self, sir! Oh, Mrs. Harper, I don’tknow how to give him up! I don’t know how to give him up! He was such acomfort to me, although he tormented my old heart out of me, ’most.”
“The Lord giveth and the Lord hath taken away—Blessed be the name ofthe Lord! But it’s so hard—Oh, it’s so hard! Only last Saturday my Joebusted a firecracker right under my nose and I knocked him sprawling.Little did I know then, how soon—Oh, if it was to do over again I’d hughim and bless him for it.”
“Yes, yes, yes, I know just how you feel, Mrs. Harper, I know justexactly how you feel. No longer ago than yesterday noon, my Tom tookand filled the cat full of Pain-killer, and I did think the cretur wouldtear the house down. And God forgive me, I cracked Tom’s head with mythimble, poor boy, poor dead boy. But he’s out of all his troubles now.And the last words I ever heard him say was to reproach—”
But this memory was too much for the old lady, and she broke entirelydown. Tom was snuffling, now, himself—and more in pity of himself thananybody else. He could hear Mary crying, and putting in a kindly wordfor him from time to time. He began to have a nobler opinion of himselfthan ever before. Still, he was sufficiently touched by his aunt’s griefto long to rush out from under the bed and overwhelm her with joy—andthe theatrical gorgeousness of the thing appealed strongly to hisnature, too, but he resisted and lay still.
He went on listening, and gathered by odds and ends that it wasconjectured at first that the boys had got drowned while taking a swim;then the small raft had been missed; next, certain boys said the missinglads had promised that the village should “hear something” soon; thewise-heads had “put this and that together” and decided that the ladshad gone off on that raft and would turn up at the next town below,presently; but toward noon the raft had been found, lodged against theMissouri shore some five or six miles below the village—and then hopeperished; they must be drowned, else hunger would have driven them homeby nightfall if not sooner. It was believed that the search for thebodies had been a fruitless effort merely because the drowning musthave occurred in mid-channel, since the boys, being good swimmers, wouldotherwise have escaped to shore. This was Wednesday night. If the bodiescontinued missing until Sunday, all hope would be given over, and thefunerals would be preached on that morning. Tom shuddered.
Mrs. Harper gave a sobbing goodnight and turned to go. Then with amutual impulse the two bereaved women flung themselves into each other’sarms and had a good, consoling cry, and then parted. Aunt Polly wastender far beyond her wont, in her goodnight to Sid and Mary. Sidsnuffled a bit and Mary went off crying with all her heart.
Aunt Polly knelt down and prayed for Tom so touchingly, so appealingly,and with such measureless love in her words and her old trembling voice,that he was weltering in tears again, long before she was through.
He had to keep still long after she went to bed, for she kept makingbroken-hearted ejaculations from time to time, tossing unrestfully, andturning over. But at last she was still, only moaning a little in hersleep. Now the boy stole out, rose gradually by the bedside, shaded thecandle-light with his hand, and stood regarding her. His heart was fullof pity for her. He took out his sycamore scroll and placed it by thecandle. But something occurred to him, and he lingered considering.His face lighted with a happy solution of his thought; he put the barkhastily in his pocket. Then he bent over and kissed the faded lips, andstraightway made his stealthy exit, latching the door behind him.
He threaded his way back to the ferry landing, found nobody at largethere, and walked boldly on board the boat, for he knew she wastenantless except that there was a watchman, who always turned in andslept like a graven image. He untied the skiff at the stern, slippedinto it, and was soon rowing cautiously upstream. When he had pulled amile above the village, he started quartering across and bent himselfstoutly to his work. He hit the landing on the other side neatly, forthis was a familiar bit of work to him. He was moved to capturethe skiff, arguing that it might be considered a ship and thereforelegitimate prey for a pirate, but he knew a thorough search would bemade for it and that might end in revelations. So he stepped ashore andentered the woods.
He sat down and took a long rest, torturing himself meanwhile to keepawake, and then started warily down the home-stretch. The night was farspent. It was broad daylight before he found himself fairly abreast theisland bar. He rested again until the sun was well up and gilding thegreat river with its splendor, and then he plunged into the stream. Alittle later he paused, dripping, upon the threshold of the camp, andheard Joe say:
“No, Tom’s true-blue, Huck, and he’ll come back. He won’t desert. Heknows that would be a disgrace to a pirate, and Tom’s too proud for thatsort of thing. He’s up to something or other. Now I wonder what?”
“Well, the things is ours, anyway, ain’t they?”
“Pretty near, but not yet, Huck. The writing says they are if he ain’tback here to breakfast.”
“Which he is!” exclaimed Tom, with fine dramatic effect, steppinggrandly into camp.
A sumptuous breakfast of bacon and fish was shortly provided, and as theboys set to work upon it, Tom recounted (and adorned) his adventures.They were a vain and boastful company of heroes when the tale was done.Then Tom hid himself away in a shady nook to sleep till noon, and theother pirates got ready to fish and explore.



CHAPTER XVI

AFTER dinner all the gang turned out to hunt for turtle eggs on the bar.They went about poking sticks into the sand, and when they found a softplace they went down on their knees and dug with their hands. Sometimesthey would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one hole. They were perfectlyround white things a trifle smaller than an English walnut. They had afamous fried-egg feast that night, and another on Friday morning.
After breakfast they went whooping and prancing out on the bar, andchased each other round and round, shedding clothes as they went, untilthey were naked, and then continued the frolic far away up the shoalwater of the bar, against the stiff current, which latter tripped theirlegs from under them from time to time and greatly increased the fun.And now and then they stooped in a group and splashed water in eachother’s faces with their palms, gradually approaching each other, withaverted faces to avoid the strangling sprays, and finally gripping andstruggling till the best man ducked his neighbor, and then they allwent under in a tangle of white legs and arms and came up blowing,sputtering, laughing, and gasping for breath at one and the same time.
When they were well exhausted, they would run out and sprawl on the dry,hot sand, and lie there and cover themselves up with it, and by and bybreak for the water again and go through the original performance oncemore. Finally it occurred to them that their naked skin representedflesh-colored “tights” very fairly; so they drew a ring in the sand andhad a circus—with three clowns in it, for none would yield this proudestpost to his neighbor.
Next they got their marbles and played “knucks” and “ringtaw” and“keeps” till that amusement grew stale. Then Joe and Huck had anotherswim, but Tom would not venture, because he found that in kicking offhis trousers he had kicked his string of rattlesnake rattles off hisankle, and he wondered how he had escaped cramp so long without theprotection of this mysterious charm. He did not venture again until hehad found it, and by that time the other boys were tired and ready torest. They gradually wandered apart, dropped into the “dumps,” andfell to gazing longingly across the wide river to where the village laydrowsing in the sun. Tom found himself writing “BECKY” in the sand withhis big toe; he scratched it out, and was angry with himself for hisweakness. But he wrote it again, nevertheless; he could not help it. Heerased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by drivingthe other boys together and joining them.
But Joe’s spirits had gone down almost beyond resurrection. He was sohomesick that he could hardly endure the misery of it. The tears layvery near the surface. Huck was melancholy, too. Tom was downhearted,but tried hard not to show it. He had a secret which he was not readyto tell, yet, but if this mutinous depression was not broken up soon, hewould have to bring it out. He said, with a great show of cheerfulness:
“I bet there’s been pirates on this island before, boys. We’ll exploreit again. They’ve hid treasures here somewhere. How’d you feel to lighton a rotten chest full of gold and silver—hey?”
But it roused only faint enthusiasm, which faded out, with no reply.Tom tried one or two other seductions; but they failed, too. It wasdiscouraging work. Joe sat poking up the sand with a stick and lookingvery gloomy. Finally he said:
“Oh, boys, let’s give it up. I want to go home. It’s so lonesome.”
“Oh no, Joe, you’ll feel better by and by,” said Tom. “Just think of thefishing that’s here.”
“I don’t care for fishing. I want to go home.”
“But, Joe, there ain’t such another swimming-place anywhere.”
“Swimming’s no good. I don’t seem to care for it, somehow, when thereain’t anybody to say I sha’n’t go in. I mean to go home.”
“Oh, shucks! Baby! You want to see your mother, I reckon.”
“Yes, I _do_ want to see my mother—and you would, too, if you had one. Iain’t any more baby than you are.” And Joe snuffled a little.
“Well, we’ll let the crybaby go home to his mother, won’t we, Huck? Poorthing—does it want to see its mother? And so it shall. You like it here,don’t you, Huck? We’ll stay, won’t we?”
Huck said, “Y-e-s”—without any heart in it.
“I’ll never speak to you again as long as I live,” said Joe, rising.“There now!” And he moved moodily away and began to dress himself.
“Who cares!” said Tom. “Nobody wants you to. Go ’long home and getlaughed at. Oh, you’re a nice pirate. Huck and me ain’t crybabies. We’llstay, won’t we, Huck? Let him go if he wants to. I reckon we can getalong without him, per’aps.”
But Tom was uneasy, nevertheless, and was alarmed to see Joe go sullenlyon with his dressing. And then it was discomforting to see Huck eyingJoe’s preparations so wistfully, and keeping up such an ominous silence.Presently, without a parting word, Joe began to wade off toward theIllinois shore. Tom’s heart began to sink. He glanced at Huck. Huckcould not bear the look, and dropped his eyes. Then he said:
“I want to go, too, Tom. It was getting so lonesome anyway, and nowit’ll be worse. Let’s us go, too, Tom.”
“I won’t! You can all go, if you want to. I mean to stay.”
“Tom, I better go.”
“Well, go ’long—who’s hendering you.”
Huck began to pick up his scattered clothes. He said:
“Tom, I wisht you’d come, too. Now you think it over. We’ll wait for youwhen we get to shore.”
“Well, you’ll wait a blame long time, that’s all.”
Huck started sorrowfully away, and Tom stood looking after him, with astrong desire tugging at his heart to yield his pride and go alongtoo. He hoped the boys would stop, but they still waded slowly on. Itsuddenly dawned on Tom that it was become very lonely and still. He madeone final struggle with his pride, and then darted after his comrades,yelling:
“Wait! Wait! I want to tell you something!”
They presently stopped and turned around. When he got to where theywere, he began unfolding his secret, and they listened moodily tillat last they saw the “point” he was driving at, and then they set up awarwhoop of applause and said it was “splendid!” and said if he hadtold them at first, they wouldn’t have started away. He made a plausibleexcuse; but his real reason had been the fear that not even the secretwould keep them with him any very great length of time, and so he hadmeant to hold it in reserve as a last seduction.
The lads came gayly back and went at their sports again with a will,chattering all the time about Tom’s stupendous plan and admiring thegenius of it. After a dainty egg and fish dinner, Tom said he wanted tolearn to smoke, now. Joe caught at the idea and said he would like totry, too. So Huck made pipes and filled them. These novices had neversmoked anything before but cigars made of grapevine, and they “bit” thetongue, and were not considered manly anyway.
Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff,charily, and with slender confidence. The smoke had an unpleasant taste,and they gagged a little, but Tom said:
“Why, it’s just as easy! If I’d a knowed this was all, I’d a learnt longago.”
“So would I,” said Joe. “It’s just nothing.”
“Why, many a time I’ve looked at people smoking, and thought well I wishI could do that; but I never thought I could,” said Tom.
“That’s just the way with me, hain’t it, Huck? You’ve heard me talk justthat way—haven’t you, Huck? I’ll leave it to Huck if I haven’t.”
“Yes—heaps of times,” said Huck.
“Well, I have too,” said Tom; “oh, hundreds of times. Once down by theslaughter-house. Don’t you remember, Huck? Bob Tanner was there, andJohnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it. Don’t you remember,Huck, ’bout me saying that?”
“Yes, that’s so,” said Huck. “That was the day after I lost a whitealley. No, ’twas the day before.”
“There—I told you so,” said Tom. “Huck recollects it.”
“I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all day,” said Joe. “I don’t feelsick.”
“Neither do I,” said Tom. “I could smoke it all day. But I bet you JeffThatcher couldn’t.”
“Jeff Thatcher! Why, he’d keel over just with two draws. Just let himtry it once. _He’d_ see!”
“I bet he would. And Johnny Miller—I wish could see Johnny Miller tackleit once.”
“Oh, don’t I!” said Joe. “Why, I bet you Johnny Miller couldn’t any moredo this than nothing. Just one little snifter would fetch _him_.”
“’Deed it would, Joe. Say—I wish the boys could see us now.”
“So do I.”
“Say—boys, don’t say anything about it, and some time when they’rearound, I’ll come up to you and say, ‘Joe, got a pipe? I want a smoke.’And you’ll say, kind of careless like, as if it warn’t anything, you’llsay, ‘Yes, I got my _old_ pipe, and another one, but my tobacker ain’tvery good.’ And I’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s all right, if it’s _strong_enough.’ And then you’ll out with the pipes, and we’ll light up just asca’m, and then just see ’em look!”
“By jings, that’ll be gay, Tom! I wish it was _now_!”
“So do I! And when we tell ’em we learned when we was off pirating,won’t they wish they’d been along?”
“Oh, I reckon not! I’ll just _bet_ they will!”
So the talk ran on. But presently it began to flag a trifle, andgrow disjointed. The silences widened; the expectoration marvellouslyincreased. Every pore inside the boys’ cheeks became a spoutingfountain; they could scarcely bail out the cellars under their tonguesfast enough to prevent an inundation; little overflowings down theirthroats occurred in spite of all they could do, and sudden retchingsfollowed every time. Both boys were looking very pale and miserable,now. Joe’s pipe dropped from his nerveless fingers. Tom’s followed. Bothfountains were going furiously and both pumps bailing with might andmain. Joe said feebly:
“I’ve lost my knife. I reckon I better go and find it.”
Tom said, with quivering lips and halting utterance:
“I’ll help you. You go over that way and I’ll hunt around by the spring.No, you needn’t come, Huck—we can find it.”
So Huck sat down again, and waited an hour. Then he found it lonesome,and went to find his comrades. They were wide apart in the woods, bothvery pale, both fast asleep. But something informed him that if they hadhad any trouble they had got rid of it.
They were not talkative at supper that night. They had a humble look,and when Huck prepared his pipe after the meal and was going to preparetheirs, they said no, they were not feeling very well—something they ateat dinner had disagreed with them.
About midnight Joe awoke, and called the boys. There was a broodingoppressiveness in the air that seemed to bode something. The boyshuddled themselves together and sought the friendly companionship ofthe fire, though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere wasstifling. They sat still, intent and waiting. The solemn hush continued.Beyond the light of the fire everything was swallowed up in theblackness of darkness. Presently there came a quivering glow thatvaguely revealed the foliage for a moment and then vanished. By and byanother came, a little stronger. Then another. Then a faint moan camesighing through the branches of the forest and the boys felt a fleetingbreath upon their cheeks, and shuddered with the fancy that the Spiritof the Night had gone by. There was a pause. Now a weird flash turnednight into day and showed every little grassblade, separate anddistinct, that grew about their feet. And it showed three white,startled faces, too. A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumblingdown the heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in the distance. Asweep of chilly air passed by, rustling all the leaves and snowing theflaky ashes broadcast about the fire. Another fierce glare lit up theforest and an instant crash followed that seemed to rend the treetopsright over the boys’ heads. They clung together in terror, in the thickgloom that followed. A few big raindrops fell pattering upon the leaves.
“Quick! boys, go for the tent!” exclaimed Tom.
They sprang away, stumbling over roots and among vines in the dark, notwo plunging in the same direction. A furious blast roared throughthe trees, making everything sing as it went. One blinding flash afteranother came, and peal on peal of deafening thunder. And now a drenchingrain poured down and the rising hurricane drove it in sheets along theground. The boys cried out to each other, but the roaring wind and thebooming thunderblasts drowned their voices utterly. However, one by onethey straggled in at last and took shelter under the tent, cold, scared,and streaming with water; but to have company in misery seemed somethingto be grateful for. They could not talk, the old sail flapped sofuriously, even if the other noises would have allowed them. The tempestrose higher and higher, and presently the sail tore loose from itsfastenings and went winging away on the blast. The boys seized eachothers’ hands and fled, with many tumblings and bruises, to the shelterof a great oak that stood upon the riverbank. Now the battle was at itshighest. Under the ceaseless conflagration of lightning that flamedin the skies, everything below stood out in cleancut and shadowlessdistinctness: the bending trees, the billowy river, white with foam, thedriving spray of spumeflakes, the dim outlines of the high bluffs onthe other side, glimpsed through the drifting cloudrack and the slantingveil of rain. Every little while some giant tree yielded the fightand fell crashing through the younger growth; and the unflaggingthunderpeals came now in ear-splitting explosive bursts, keen and sharp,and unspeakably appalling. The storm culminated in one matchless effortthat seemed likely to tear the island to pieces, burn it up, drown it tothe treetops, blow it away, and deafen every creature in it, all at oneand the same moment. It was a wild night for homeless young heads to beout in.
But at last the battle was done, and the forces retired with weaker andweaker threatenings and grumblings, and peace resumed her sway. Theboys went back to camp, a good deal awed; but they found there was stillsomething to be thankful for, because the great sycamore, the shelterof their beds, was a ruin, now, blasted by the lightnings, and they werenot under it when the catastrophe happened.
Everything in camp was drenched, the campfire as well; for they were butheedless lads, like their generation, and had made no provision againstrain. Here was matter for dismay, for they were soaked through andchilled. They were eloquent in their distress; but they presentlydiscovered that the fire had eaten so far up under the great log it hadbeen built against (where it curved upward and separated itself fromthe ground), that a handbreadth or so of it had escaped wetting; so theypatiently wrought until, with shreds and bark gathered from the undersides of sheltered logs, they coaxed the fire to burn again. Then theypiled on great dead boughs till they had a roaring furnace, and weregladhearted once more. They dried their boiled ham and had a feast,and after that they sat by the fire and expanded and glorified theirmidnight adventure until morning, for there was not a dry spot to sleepon, anywhere around.
As the sun began to steal in upon the boys, drowsiness came overthem, and they went out on the sandbar and lay down to sleep. They gotscorched out by and by, and drearily set about getting breakfast. Afterthe meal they felt rusty, and stiff-jointed, and a little homesick oncemore. Tom saw the signs, and fell to cheering up the pirates as well ashe could. But they cared nothing for marbles, or circus, or swimming, oranything. He reminded them of the imposing secret, and raised a ray ofcheer. While it lasted, he got them interested in a new device. This wasto knock off being pirates, for a while, and be Indians for a change.They were attracted by this idea; so it was not long before they werestripped, and striped from head to heel with black mud, like so manyzebras—all of them chiefs, of course—and then they went tearing throughthe woods to attack an English settlement.
By and by they separated into three hostile tribes, and darted upon eachother from ambush with dreadful warwhoops, and killed and scalped eachother by thousands. It was a gory day. Consequently it was an extremelysatisfactory one.
They assembled in camp toward suppertime, hungry and happy; but nowa difficulty arose—hostile Indians could not break the bread ofhospitality together without first making peace, and this was a simpleimpossibility without smoking a pipe of peace. There was no otherprocess that ever they had heard of. Two of the savages almost wishedthey had remained pirates. However, there was no other way; so with suchshow of cheerfulness as they could muster they called for the pipe andtook their whiff as it passed, in due form.
And behold, they were glad they had gone into savagery, for they hadgained something; they found that they could now smoke a little withouthaving to go and hunt for a lost knife; they did not get sick enough tobe seriously uncomfortable. They were not likely to fool away this highpromise for lack of effort. No, they practised cautiously, after supper,with right fair success, and so they spent a jubilant evening. They wereprouder and happier in their new acquirement than they would have beenin the scalping and skinning of the Six Nations. We will leave them tosmoke and chatter and brag, since we have no further use for them atpresent.



CHAPTER XVII

BUT there was no hilarity in the little town that same tranquil Saturdayafternoon. The Harpers, and Aunt Polly’s family, were being put intomourning, with great grief and many tears. An unusual quiet possessedthe village, although it was ordinarily quiet enough, in all conscience.The villagers conducted their concerns with an absent air, and talkedlittle; but they sighed often. The Saturday holiday seemed a burden tothe children. They had no heart in their sports, and gradually gave themup.
In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about the desertedschoolhouse yard, and feeling very melancholy. But she found nothingthere to comfort her. She soliloquized:
“Oh, if I only had a brass andiron-knob again! But I haven’t gotanything now to remember him by.” And she choked back a little sob.
Presently she stopped, and said to herself:
“It was right here. Oh, if it was to do over again, I wouldn’t saythat—I wouldn’t say it for the whole world. But he’s gone now; I’llnever, never, never see him any more.”
This thought broke her down, and she wandered away, with tears rollingdown her cheeks. Then quite a group of boys and girls—playmates of Tom’sand Joe’s—came by, and stood looking over the paling fence and talkingin reverent tones of how Tom did so-and-so the last time they sawhim, and how Joe said this and that small trifle (pregnant with awfulprophecy, as they could easily see now!)—and each speaker pointed outthe exact spot where the lost lads stood at the time, and then addedsomething like “and I was a-standing just so—just as I am now, and as ifyou was him—I was as close as that—and he smiled, just this way—and thensomething seemed to go all over me, like—awful, you know—and I neverthought what it meant, of course, but I can see now!”
Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life, andmany claimed that dismal distinction, and offered evidences, more orless tampered with by the witness; and when it was ultimately decidedwho _did_ see the departed last, and exchanged the last words with them,the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance,and were gaped at and envied by all the rest. One poor chap, who hadno other grandeur to offer, said with tolerably manifest pride in theremembrance:
“Well, Tom Sawyer he licked me once.”
But that bid for glory was a failure. Most of the boys could say that,and so that cheapened the distinction too much. The group loitered away,still recalling memories of the lost heroes, in awed voices.
When the Sunday-school hour was finished, the next morning, the bellbegan to toll, instead of ringing in the usual way. It was a very stillSabbath, and the mournful sound seemed in keeping with the musing hushthat lay upon nature. The villagers began to gather, loitering a momentin the vestibule to converse in whispers about the sad event. But therewas no whispering in the house; only the funereal rustling of dressesas the women gathered to their seats disturbed the silence there. Nonecould remember when the little church had been so full before. Therewas finally a waiting pause, an expectant dumbness, and then Aunt Pollyentered, followed by Sid and Mary, and they by the Harper family, all indeep black, and the whole congregation, the old minister as well, rosereverently and stood until the mourners were seated in the front pew.There was another communing silence, broken at intervals by muffledsobs, and then the minister spread his hands abroad and prayed. A movinghymn was sung, and the text followed: “I am the Resurrection and theLife.”
As the service proceeded, the clergyman drew such pictures of thegraces, the winning ways, and the rare promise of the lost lads thatevery soul there, thinking he recognized these pictures, felt a pangin remembering that he had persistently blinded himself to them alwaysbefore, and had as persistently seen only faults and flaws in the poorboys. The minister related many a touching incident in the lives of thedeparted, too, which illustrated their sweet, generous natures, and thepeople could easily see, now, how noble and beautiful those episodeswere, and remembered with grief that at the time they occurred they hadseemed rank rascalities, well deserving of the cowhide. The congregationbecame more and more moved, as the pathetic tale went on, till at lastthe whole company broke down and joined the weeping mourners in a chorusof anguished sobs, the preacher himself giving way to his feelings, andcrying in the pulpit.
There was a rustle in the gallery, which nobody noticed; a moment laterthe church door creaked; the minister raised his streaming eyes abovehis handkerchief, and stood transfixed! First one and then another pairof eyes followed the minister’s, and then almost with one impulse thecongregation rose and stared while the three dead boys came marching upthe aisle, Tom in the lead, Joe next, and Huck, a ruin of drooping rags,sneaking sheepishly in the rear! They had been hid in the unused gallerylistening to their own funeral sermon!
Aunt Polly, Mary, and the Harpers threw themselves upon their restoredones, smothered them with kisses and poured out thanksgivings, whilepoor Huck stood abashed and uncomfortable, not knowing exactly whatto do or where to hide from so many unwelcoming eyes. He wavered, andstarted to slink away, but Tom seized him and said:
“Aunt Polly, it ain’t fair. Somebody’s got to be glad to see Huck.”
“And so they shall. I’m glad to see him, poor motherless thing!” Andthe loving attentions Aunt Polly lavished upon him were the one thingcapable of making him more uncomfortable than he was before.
Suddenly the minister shouted at the top of his voice: “Praise God fromwhom all blessings flow—_sing_!—and put your hearts in it!”
And they did. Old Hundred swelled up with a triumphant burst, andwhile it shook the rafters Tom Sawyer the Pirate looked around upon theenvying juveniles about him and confessed in his heart that this was theproudest moment of his life.
As the “sold” congregation trooped out they said they would almost bewilling to be made ridiculous again to hear Old Hundred sung like thatonce more.
Tom got more cuffs and kisses that day—according to Aunt Polly’s varyingmoods—than he had earned before in a year; and he hardly knew whichexpressed the most gratefulness to God and affection for himself.



CHAPTER XVIII

THAT was Tom’s great secret—the scheme to return home with his brotherpirates and attend their own funerals. They had paddled over to theMissouri shore on a log, at dusk on Saturday, landing five or six milesbelow the village; they had slept in the woods at the edge of the towntill nearly daylight, and had then crept through back lanes and alleysand finished their sleep in the gallery of the church among a chaos ofinvalided benches.
At breakfast, Monday morning, Aunt Polly and Mary were very loving toTom, and very attentive to his wants. There was an unusual amount oftalk. In the course of it Aunt Polly said:
“Well, I don’t say it wasn’t a fine joke, Tom, to keep everybodysuffering ’most a week so you boys had a good time, but it is a pity youcould be so hard-hearted as to let me suffer so. If you could come overon a log to go to your funeral, you could have come over and give me ahint some way that you warn’t dead, but only run off.”
“Yes, you could have done that, Tom,” said Mary; “and I believe youwould if you had thought of it.”
“Would you, Tom?” said Aunt Polly, her face lighting wistfully. “Say,now, would you, if you’d thought of it?”
“I—well, I don’t know. ’Twould ’a’ spoiled everything.”
“Tom, I hoped you loved me that much,” said Aunt Polly, with a grievedtone that discomforted the boy. “It would have been something if you’dcared enough to _think_ of it, even if you didn’t _do_ it.”
“Now, auntie, that ain’t any harm,” pleaded Mary; “it’s only Tom’s giddyway—he is always in such a rush that he never thinks of anything.”
“More’s the pity. Sid would have thought. And Sid would have come and_done_ it, too. Tom, you’ll look back, some day, when it’s too late,and wish you’d cared a little more for me when it would have cost you solittle.”
“Now, auntie, you know I do care for you,” said Tom.
“I’d know it better if you acted more like it.”
“I wish now I’d thought,” said Tom, with a repentant tone; “but I dreamtabout you, anyway. That’s something, ain’t it?”
“It ain’t much—a cat does that much—but it’s better than nothing. Whatdid you dream?”
“Why, Wednesday night I dreamt that you was sitting over there by thebed, and Sid was sitting by the woodbox, and Mary next to him.”
“Well, so we did. So we always do. I’m glad your dreams could take eventhat much trouble about us.”
“And I dreamt that Joe Harper’s mother was here.”
“Why, she was here! Did you dream any more?”
“Oh, lots. But it’s so dim, now.”
“Well, try to recollect—can’t you?”
“Somehow it seems to me that the wind—the wind blowed the—the—”
“Try harder, Tom! The wind did blow something. Come!”
Tom pressed his fingers on his forehead an anxious minute, and thensaid:
“I’ve got it now! I’ve got it now! It blowed the candle!”
“Mercy on us! Go on, Tom—go on!”
“And it seems to me that you said, ‘Why, I believe that that door—’”
“Go _on_, Tom!”
“Just let me study a moment—just a moment. Oh, yes—you said you believedthe door was open.”
“As I’m sitting here, I did! Didn’t I, Mary! Go on!”
“And then—and then—well I won’t be certain, but it seems like as if youmade Sid go and—and—”
“Well? Well? What did I make him do, Tom? What did I make him do?”
“You made him—you—Oh, you made him shut it.”
“Well, for the land’s sake! I never heard the beat of that in all mydays! Don’t tell _me_ there ain’t anything in dreams, any more. SerenyHarper shall know of this before I’m an hour older. I’d like to see herget around _this_ with her rubbage ’bout superstition. Go on, Tom!”
“Oh, it’s all getting just as bright as day, now. Next you said I warn’t_bad_, only mischeevous and harum-scarum, and not any more responsiblethan—than—I think it was a colt, or something.”
“And so it was! Well, goodness gracious! Go on, Tom!”
“And then you began to cry.”
“So I did. So I did. Not the first time, neither. And then—”
“Then Mrs. Harper she began to cry, and said Joe was just the same, andshe wished she hadn’t whipped him for taking cream when she’d throwed itout her own self—”
“Tom! The sperrit was upon you! You was a prophesying—that’s what youwas doing! Land alive, go on, Tom!”
“Then Sid he said—he said—”
“I don’t think I said anything,” said Sid.
“Yes you did, Sid,” said Mary.
“Shut your heads and let Tom go on! What did he say, Tom?”
“He said—I _think_ he said he hoped I was better off where I was goneto, but if I’d been better sometimes—”
“_There_, d’you hear that! It was his very words!”
“And you shut him up sharp.”
“I lay I did! There must ’a’ been an angel there. There _was_ an angelthere, somewheres!”
“And Mrs. Harper told about Joe scaring her with a firecracker, and youtold about Peter and the Pain-killer—”
“Just as true as I live!”
“And then there was a whole lot of talk ’bout dragging the river for us,and ’bout having the funeral Sunday, and then you and old Miss Harperhugged and cried, and she went.”
“It happened just so! It happened just so, as sure as I’m a-sitting inthese very tracks. Tom, you couldn’t told it more like if you’d ’a’ seenit! And then what? Go on, Tom!”
“Then I thought you prayed for me—and I could see you and hear everyword you said. And you went to bed, and I was so sorry that I took andwrote on a piece of sycamore bark, ‘We ain’t dead—we are only off beingpirates,’ and put it on the table by the candle; and then you lookedso good, laying there asleep, that I thought I went and leaned over andkissed you on the lips.”
“Did you, Tom, _did_ you! I just forgive you everything for that!” Andshe seized the boy in a crushing embrace that made him feel like theguiltiest of villains.
“It was very kind, even though it was only a—dream,” Sid soliloquizedjust audibly.
“Shut up, Sid! A body does just the same in a dream as he’d do if he wasawake. Here’s a big Milum apple I’ve been saving for you, Tom, if youwas ever found again—now go ’long to school. I’m thankful to the goodGod and Father of us all I’ve got you back, that’s long-suffering andmerciful to them that believe on Him and keep His word, though goodnessknows I’m unworthy of it, but if only the worthy ones got His blessingsand had His hand to help them over the rough places, there’s few enoughwould smile here or ever enter into His rest when the long night comes.Go ’long Sid, Mary, Tom—take yourselves off—you’ve hendered me longenough.”
The children left for school, and the old lady to call on Mrs. Harperand vanquish her realism with Tom’s marvellous dream. Sid had betterjudgment than to utter the thought that was in his mind as he left thehouse. It was this: “Pretty thin—as long a dream as that, without anymistakes in it!”
What a hero Tom was become, now! He did not go skipping and prancing,but moved with a dignified swagger as became a pirate who felt that thepublic eye was on him. And indeed it was; he tried not to seem to seethe looks or hear the remarks as he passed along, but they were food anddrink to him. Smaller boys than himself flocked at his heels, as proudto be seen with him, and tolerated by him, as if he had been the drummerat the head of a procession or the elephant leading a menagerie intotown. Boys of his own size pretended not to know he had been away atall; but they were consuming with envy, nevertheless. They would havegiven anything to have that swarthy sun-tanned skin of his, and hisglittering notoriety; and Tom would not have parted with either for acircus.
At school the children made so much of him and of Joe, and deliveredsuch eloquent admiration from their eyes, that the two heroes werenot long in becoming insufferably “stuck-up.” They began to tell theiradventures to hungry listeners—but they only began; it was not athing likely to have an end, with imaginations like theirs to furnishmaterial. And finally, when they got out their pipes and went serenelypuffing around, the very summit of glory was reached.
Tom decided that he could be independent of Becky Thatcher now. Glorywas sufficient. He would live for glory. Now that he was distinguished,maybe she would be wanting to “make up.” Well, let her—she should seethat he could be as indifferent as some other people. Presently shearrived. Tom pretended not to see her. He moved away and joined a groupof boys and girls and began to talk. Soon he observed that she wastripping gayly back and forth with flushed face and dancing eyes,pretending to be busy chasing schoolmates, and screaming with laughterwhen she made a capture; but he noticed that she always made hercaptures in his vicinity, and that she seemed to cast a conscious eyein his direction at such times, too. It gratified all the vicious vanitythat was in him; and so, instead of winning him, it only “set him up” the more and made him the more diligent to avoid betraying that heknew she was about. Presently she gave over skylarking, and movedirresolutely about, sighing once or twice and glancing furtively andwistfully toward Tom. Then she observed that now Tom was talking moreparticularly to Amy Lawrence than to any one else. She felt a sharp pangand grew disturbed and uneasy at once. She tried to go away, but herfeet were treacherous, and carried her to the group instead. She said toa girl almost at Tom’s elbow—with sham vivacity:
“Why, Mary Austin! you bad girl, why didn’t you come to Sunday-school?”
“I did come—didn’t you see me?”
“Why, no! Did you? Where did you sit?”
“I was in Miss Peters’ class, where I always go. I saw _you_.”
“Did you? Why, it’s funny I didn’t see you. I wanted to tell you aboutthe picnic.”
“Oh, that’s jolly. Who’s going to give it?”
“My ma’s going to let me have one.”
“Oh, goody; I hope she’ll let _me_ come.”
“Well, she will. The picnic’s for me. She’ll let anybody come that Iwant, and I want you.”
“That’s ever so nice. When is it going to be?”
“By and by. Maybe about vacation.”
“Oh, won’t it be fun! You going to have all the girls and boys?”
“Yes, every one that’s friends to me—or wants to be”; and she glancedever so furtively at Tom, but he talked right along to Amy Lawrenceabout the terrible storm on the island, and how the lightning tore thegreat sycamore tree “all to flinders” while he was “standing withinthree feet of it.”
“Oh, may I come?” said Grace Miller.
“Yes.”
“And me?” said Sally Rogers.
“Yes.”
“And me, too?” said Susy Harper. “And Joe?”
“Yes.”
And so on, with clapping of joyful hands till all the group had beggedfor invitations but Tom and Amy. Then Tom turned coolly away, stilltalking, and took Amy with him. Becky’s lips trembled and the tearscame to her eyes; she hid these signs with a forced gayety and went onchattering, but the life had gone out of the picnic, now, and out ofeverything else; she got away as soon as she could and hid herself andhad what her sex call “a good cry.” Then she sat moody, with woundedpride, till the bell rang. She roused up, now, with a vindictive castin her eye, and gave her plaited tails a shake and said she knew what_she’d_ do.
At recess Tom continued his flirtation with Amy with jubilantself-satisfaction. And he kept drifting about to find Becky and lacerateher with the performance. At last he spied her, but there was a suddenfalling of his mercury. She was sitting cosily on a little bench behindthe schoolhouse looking at a picture-book with Alfred Temple—and soabsorbed were they, and their heads so close together over the book,that they did not seem to be conscious of anything in the world besides.Jealousy ran red-hot through Tom’s veins. He began to hate himself forthrowing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation. Hecalled himself a fool, and all the hard names he could think of. Hewanted to cry with vexation. Amy chatted happily along, as they walked,for her heart was singing, but Tom’s tongue had lost its function. Hedid not hear what Amy was saying, and whenever she paused expectantlyhe could only stammer an awkward assent, which was as often misplacedas otherwise. He kept drifting to the rear of the schoolhouse, again andagain, to sear his eyeballs with the hateful spectacle there. He couldnot help it. And it maddened him to see, as he thought he saw, thatBecky Thatcher never once suspected that he was even in the land of theliving. But she did see, nevertheless; and she knew she was winning herfight, too, and was glad to see him suffer as she had suffered.
Amy’s happy prattle became intolerable. Tom hinted at things he hadto attend to; things that must be done; and time was fleeting. But invain—the girl chirped on. Tom thought, “Oh, hang her, ain’t I ever goingto get rid of her?” At last he must be attending to those things—and shesaid artlessly that she would be “around” when school let out. And hehastened away, hating her for it.
“Any other boy!” Tom thought, grating his teeth. “Any boy in the wholetown but that Saint Louis smarty that thinks he dresses so fine and isaristocracy! Oh, all right, I licked you the first day you ever saw thistown, mister, and I’ll lick you again! You just wait till I catch youout! I’ll just take and—”
And he went through the motions of thrashing an imaginary boy—pummellingthe air, and kicking and gouging. “Oh, you do, do you? You holler’nough, do you? Now, then, let that learn you!” And so the imaginaryflogging was finished to his satisfaction.
Tom fled home at noon. His conscience could not endure any more of Amy’sgrateful happiness, and his jealousy could bear no more of the otherdistress. Becky resumed her picture inspections with Alfred, but as theminutes dragged along and no Tom came to suffer, her triumph began tocloud and she lost interest; gravity and absentmindedness followed,and then melancholy; two or three times she pricked up her ear ata footstep, but it was a false hope; no Tom came. At last she grewentirely miserable and wished she hadn’t carried it so far. Whenpoor Alfred, seeing that he was losing her, he did not know how, keptexclaiming: “Oh, here’s a jolly one! look at this!” she lost patience atlast, and said, “Oh, don’t bother me! I don’t care for them!” and burstinto tears, and got up and walked away.
Alfred dropped alongside and was going to try to comfort her, but shesaid:
“Go away and leave me alone, can’t you! I hate you!”
So the boy halted, wondering what he could have done—for she had saidshe would look at pictures all through the nooning—and she walked on,crying. Then Alfred went musing into the deserted schoolhouse. He washumiliated and angry. He easily guessed his way to the truth—the girlhad simply made a convenience of him to vent her spite upon Tom Sawyer.He was far from hating Tom the less when this thought occurred to him.He wished there was some way to get that boy into trouble without muchrisk to himself. Tom’s spelling-book fell under his eye. Here was hisopportunity. He gratefully opened to the lesson for the afternoon andpoured ink upon the page.
Becky, glancing in at a window behind him at the moment, saw the act,and moved on, without discovering herself. She started homeward, now,intending to find Tom and tell him; Tom would be thankful and theirtroubles would be healed. Before she was half way home, however, shehad changed her mind. The thought of Tom’s treatment of her when she wastalking about her picnic came scorching back and filled her with shame.She resolved to let him get whipped on the damaged spelling-book’saccount, and to hate him forever, into the bargain.



CHAPTER XIX

TOM arrived at home in a dreary mood, and the first thing his aunt saidto him showed him that he had brought his sorrows to an unpromisingmarket:
“Tom, I’ve a notion to skin you alive!”
“Auntie, what have I done?”
“Well, you’ve done enough. Here I go over to Sereny Harper, like an oldsofty, expecting I’m going to make her believe all that rubbage aboutthat dream, when lo and behold you she’d found out from Joe that you wasover here and heard all the talk we had that night. Tom, I don’t knowwhat is to become of a boy that will act like that. It makes me feel sobad to think you could let me go to Sereny Harper and make such a foolof myself and never say a word.”
This was a new aspect of the thing. His smartness of the morning hadseemed to Tom a good joke before, and very ingenious. It merely lookedmean and shabby now. He hung his head and could not think of anything tosay for a moment. Then he said:
“Auntie, I wish I hadn’t done it—but I didn’t think.”
“Oh, child, you never think. You never think of anything but yourown selfishness. You could think to come all the way over here fromJackson’s Island in the night to laugh at our troubles, and you couldthink to fool me with a lie about a dream; but you couldn’t ever thinkto pity us and save us from sorrow.”
“Auntie, I know now it was mean, but I didn’t mean to be mean. I didn’t,honest. And besides, I didn’t come over here to laugh at you thatnight.”
“What did you come for, then?”
“It was to tell you not to be uneasy about us, because we hadn’t gotdrownded.”
“Tom, Tom, I would be the thankfullest soul in this world if I couldbelieve you ever had as good a thought as that, but you know you neverdid—and I know it, Tom.”
“Indeed and ’deed I did, auntie—I wish I may never stir if I didn’t.”
“Oh, Tom, don’t lie—don’t do it. It only makes things a hundred timesworse.”
“It ain’t a lie, auntie; it’s the truth. I wanted to keep you fromgrieving—that was all that made me come.”
“I’d give the whole world to believe that—it would cover up a powerof sins, Tom. I’d ’most be glad you’d run off and acted so bad. But itain’t reasonable; because, why didn’t you tell me, child?”
“Why, you see, when you got to talking about the funeral, I just got allfull of the idea of our coming and hiding in the church, and I couldn’tsomehow bear to spoil it. So I just put the bark back in my pocket andkept mum.”
“What bark?”
“The bark I had wrote on to tell you we’d gone pirating. I wish, now,you’d waked up when I kissed you—I do, honest.”
The hard lines in his aunt’s face relaxed and a sudden tenderness dawnedin her eyes.
“_Did_ you kiss me, Tom?”
“Why, yes, I did.”
“Are you sure you did, Tom?”
“Why, yes, I did, auntie—certain sure.”
“What did you kiss me for, Tom?”
“Because I loved you so, and you laid there moaning and I was so sorry.”
The words sounded like truth. The old lady could not hide a tremor inher voice when she said:
“Kiss me again, Tom!—and be off with you to school, now, and don’tbother me any more.”
The moment he was gone, she ran to a closet and got out the ruin of ajacket which Tom had gone pirating in. Then she stopped, with it in herhand, and said to herself:
“No, I don’t dare. Poor boy, I reckon he’s lied about it—but it’s ablessed, blessed lie, there’s such a comfort come from it. I hopethe Lord—I _know_ the Lord will forgive him, because it was suchgood-heartedness in him to tell it. But I don’t want to find out it’s alie. I won’t look.”
She put the jacket away, and stood by musing a minute. Twice she put outher hand to take the garment again, and twice she refrained. Once moreshe ventured, and this time she fortified herself with the thought:“It’s a good lie—it’s a good lie—I won’t let it grieve me.” So shesought the jacket pocket. A moment later she was reading Tom’s piece ofbark through flowing tears and saying: “I could forgive the boy, now, ifhe’d committed a million sins!”



CHAPTER XX

THERE was something about Aunt Polly’s manner, when she kissed Tom, thatswept away his low spirits and made him lighthearted and happy again. Hestarted to school and had the luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at thehead of Meadow Lane. His mood always determined his manner. Without amoment’s hesitation he ran to her and said:
“I acted mighty mean today, Becky, and I’m so sorry. I won’t ever, everdo that way again, as long as ever I live—please make up, won’t you?”
The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face:
“I’ll thank you to keep yourself _to_ yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer. I’llnever speak to you again.”
She tossed her head and passed on. Tom was so stunned that he had noteven presence of mind enough to say “Who cares, Miss Smarty?” until theright time to say it had gone by. So he said nothing. But he was in afine rage, nevertheless. He moped into the schoolyard wishing she werea boy, and imagining how he would trounce her if she were. He presentlyencountered her and delivered a stinging remark as he passed. She hurledone in return, and the angry breach was complete. It seemed to Becky, inher hot resentment, that she could hardly wait for school to “take in,” she was so impatient to see Tom flogged for the injured spelling-book.If she had had any lingering notion of exposing Alfred Temple, Tom’soffensive fling had driven it entirely away.
Poor girl, she did not know how fast she was nearing trouble herself.The master, Mr. Dobbins, had reached middle age with an unsatisfiedambition. The darling of his desires was, to be a doctor, butpoverty had decreed that he should be nothing higher than a villageschoolmaster. Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk andabsorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting. He keptthat book under lock and key. There was not an urchin in school but wasperishing to have a glimpse of it, but the chance never came. Every boyand girl had a theory about the nature of that book; but no two theorieswere alike, and there was no way of getting at the facts in the case.Now, as Becky was passing by the desk, which stood near the door, shenoticed that the key was in the lock! It was a precious moment. Sheglanced around; found herself alone, and the next instant she had thebook in her hands. The titlepage—Professor Somebody’s _Anatomy_—carriedno information to her mind; so she began to turn the leaves. She came atonce upon a handsomely engraved and colored frontispiece—a human figure,stark naked. At that moment a shadow fell on the page and Tom Sawyerstepped in at the door and caught a glimpse of the picture. Beckysnatched at the book to close it, and had the hard luck to tear thepictured page half down the middle. She thrust the volume into the desk,turned the key, and burst out crying with shame and vexation.
“Tom Sawyer, you are just as mean as you can be, to sneak up on a personand look at what they’re looking at.”
“How could I know you was looking at anything?”
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Tom Sawyer; you know you’regoing to tell on me, and oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! I’ll bewhipped, and I never was whipped in school.”
Then she stamped her little foot and said:
“_Be_ so mean if you want to! I know something that’s going to happen.You just wait and you’ll see! Hateful, hateful, hateful!”—and she flungout of the house with a new explosion of crying.
Tom stood still, rather flustered by this onslaught. Presently he saidto himself:
“What a curious kind of a fool a girl is! Never been licked inschool! Shucks! What’s a licking! That’s just like a girl—they’re sothin-skinned and chicken-hearted. Well, of course I ain’t going to tellold Dobbins on this little fool, because there’s other ways of gettingeven on her, that ain’t so mean; but what of it? Old Dobbins will askwho it was tore his book. Nobody’ll answer. Then he’ll do just the wayhe always does—ask first one and then t’other, and when he comes to theright girl he’ll know it, without any telling. Girls’ faces always tellon them. They ain’t got any backbone. She’ll get licked. Well, it’s akind of a tight place for Becky Thatcher, because there ain’t any wayout of it.” Tom conned the thing a moment longer, and then added: “Allright, though; she’d like to see me in just such a fix—let her sweat itout!”
Tom joined the mob of skylarking scholars outside. In a few moments themaster arrived and school “took in.” Tom did not feel a strong interestin his studies. Every time he stole a glance at the girls’ side of theroom Becky’s face troubled him. Considering all things, he did not wantto pity her, and yet it was all he could do to help it. He could getup no exultation that was really worthy the name. Presently thespelling-book discovery was made, and Tom’s mind was entirely fullof his own matters for a while after that. Becky roused up from herlethargy of distress and showed good interest in the proceedings. Shedid not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that hespilt the ink on the book himself; and she was right. The denial onlyseemed to make the thing worse for Tom. Becky supposed she would be gladof that, and she tried to believe she was glad of it, but she found shewas not certain. When the worst came to the worst, she had an impulseto get up and tell on Alfred Temple, but she made an effort and forcedherself to keep still—because, said she to herself, “he’ll tell about metearing the picture sure. I wouldn’t say a word, not to save his life!”
Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at allbroken-hearted, for he thought it was possible that he had unknowinglyupset the ink on the spelling-book himself, in some skylarking bout—hehad denied it for form’s sake and because it was custom, and had stuckto the denial from principle.
A whole hour drifted by, the master sat nodding in his throne, the airwas drowsy with the hum of study. By and by, Mr. Dobbins straightenedhimself up, yawned, then unlocked his desk, and reached for his book,but seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it. Most of thepupils glanced up languidly, but there were two among them that watchedhis movements with intent eyes. Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absentlyfor a while, then took it out and settled himself in his chair to read!Tom shot a glance at Becky. He had seen a hunted and helpless rabbitlook as she did, with a gun levelled at its head. Instantly he forgothis quarrel with her. Quick—something must be done! done in a flash,too! But the very imminence of the emergency paralyzed his invention.Good!—he had an inspiration! He would run and snatch the book, springthrough the door and fly. But his resolution shook for one littleinstant, and the chance was lost—the master opened the volume. If Tomonly had the wasted opportunity back again! Too late. There was no helpfor Becky now, he said. The next moment the master faced the school.Every eye sank under his gaze. There was that in it which smote eventhe innocent with fear. There was silence while one might count ten—themaster was gathering his wrath. Then he spoke: “Who tore this book?”
There was not a sound. One could have heard a pin drop. The stillnesscontinued; the master searched face after face for signs of guilt.
“Benjamin Rogers, did you tear this book?”
A denial. Another pause.
“Joseph Harper, did you?”
Another denial. Tom’s uneasiness grew more and more intense under theslow torture of these proceedings. The master scanned the ranks ofboys—considered a while, then turned to the girls:
“Amy Lawrence?”
A shake of the head.
“Gracie Miller?”
The same sign.
“Susan Harper, did you do this?”
Another negative. The next girl was Becky Thatcher. Tom was tremblingfrom head to foot with excitement and a sense of the hopelessness of thesituation.
“Rebecca Thatcher” [Tom glanced at her face—it was white withterror]—“did you tear—no, look me in the face” [her hands rose inappeal]—“did you tear this book?”
A thought shot like lightning through Tom’s brain. He sprang to his feetand shouted—“I done it!”
The school stared in perplexity at this incredible folly. Tom stood amoment, to gather his dismembered faculties; and when he stepped forwardto go to his punishment the surprise, the gratitude, the adoration thatshone upon him out of poor Becky’s eyes seemed pay enough for a hundredfloggings. Inspired by the splendor of his own act, he took withoutan outcry the most merciless flaying that even Mr. Dobbins had everadministered; and also received with indifference the added cruelty of acommand to remain two hours after school should be dismissed—for heknew who would wait for him outside till his captivity was done, and notcount the tedious time as loss, either.
Tom went to bed that night planning vengeance against Alfred Temple; forwith shame and repentance Becky had told him all, not forgetting her owntreachery; but even the longing for vengeance had to give way, soon, topleasanter musings, and he fell asleep at last with Becky’s latest wordslingering dreamily in his ear—
“Tom, how _could_ you be so noble!”



CHAPTER XXI

VACATION was approaching. The schoolmaster, always severe, grew severerand more exacting than ever, for he wanted the school to make a goodshowing on “Examination” day. His rod and his ferule were seldom idlenow—at least among the smaller pupils. Only the biggest boys, and youngladies of eighteen and twenty, escaped lashing. Mr. Dobbins’ lashingswere very vigorous ones, too; for although he carried, under his wig, aperfectly bald and shiny head, he had only reached middle age, and therewas no sign of feebleness in his muscle. As the great day approached,all the tyranny that was in him came to the surface; he seemed to take avindictive pleasure in punishing the least shortcomings. The consequencewas, that the smaller boys spent their days in terror and suffering andtheir nights in plotting revenge. They threw away no opportunity to dothe master a mischief. But he kept ahead all the time. The retributionthat followed every vengeful success was so sweeping and majestic thatthe boys always retired from the field badly worsted. At last theyconspired together and hit upon a plan that promised a dazzling victory.They swore in the signpainter’s boy, told him the scheme, and asked hishelp. He had his own reasons for being delighted, for the master boardedin his father’s family and had given the boy ample cause to hate him.The master’s wife would go on a visit to the country in a few days, andthere would be nothing to interfere with the plan; the master alwaysprepared himself for great occasions by getting pretty well fuddled, andthe signpainter’s boy said that when the dominie had reached the propercondition on Examination Evening he would “manage the thing” while henapped in his chair; then he would have him awakened at the right timeand hurried away to school.
In the fulness of time the interesting occasion arrived. At eight inthe evening the schoolhouse was brilliantly lighted, and adorned withwreaths and festoons of foliage and flowers. The master sat throned inhis great chair upon a raised platform, with his blackboard behind him.He was looking tolerably mellow. Three rows of benches on each side andsix rows in front of him were occupied by the dignitaries of the townand by the parents of the pupils. To his left, back of the rows ofcitizens, was a spacious temporary platform upon which were seated thescholars who were to take part in the exercises of the evening; rows ofsmall boys, washed and dressed to an intolerable state of discomfort;rows of gawky big boys; snowbanks of girls and young ladies clad inlawn and muslin and conspicuously conscious of their bare arms, theirgrandmothers’ ancient trinkets, their bits of pink and blue ribbon andthe flowers in their hair. All the rest of the house was filled withnon-participating scholars.
The exercises began. A very little boy stood up and sheepishly recited,“You’d scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on the stage,” etc.—accompanying himself with the painfully exact and spasmodicgestures which a machine might have used—supposing the machine to be atrifle out of order. But he got through safely, though cruelly scared,and got a fine round of applause when he made his manufactured bow andretired.
A little shamefaced girl lisped, “Mary had a little lamb,” etc.,performed a compassion-inspiring curtsy, got her meed of applause, andsat down flushed and happy.
Tom Sawyer stepped forward with conceited confidence and soared intothe unquenchable and indestructible “Give me liberty or give me death” speech, with fine fury and frantic gesticulation, and broke down in themiddle of it. A ghastly stage-fright seized him, his legs quaked underhim and he was like to choke. True, he had the manifest sympathy of thehouse but he had the house’s silence, too, which was even worse thanits sympathy. The master frowned, and this completed the disaster. Tomstruggled awhile and then retired, utterly defeated. There was a weakattempt at applause, but it died early.
“The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck” followed; also “The Assyrian CameDown,” and other declamatory gems. Then there were reading exercises,and a spelling fight. The meagre Latin class recited with honor. Theprime feature of the evening was in order, now—original “compositions” by the young ladies. Each in her turn stepped forward to the edge of theplatform, cleared her throat, held up her manuscript (tied with daintyribbon), and proceeded to read, with labored attention to “expression” and punctuation. The themes were the same that had been illuminated uponsimilar occasions by their mothers before them, their grandmothers,and doubtless all their ancestors in the female line clear back to theCrusades. “Friendship” was one; “Memories of Other Days”; “Religion inHistory”; “Dream Land”; “The Advantages of Culture”; “Forms of PoliticalGovernment Compared and Contrasted”; “Melancholy”; “Filial Love”; “HeartLongings,” etc., etc.
A prevalent feature in these compositions was a nursed and pettedmelancholy; another was a wasteful and opulent gush of “fine language”;another was a tendency to lug in by the ears particularly prized wordsand phrases until they were worn entirely out; and a peculiarity thatconspicuously marked and marred them was the inveterate and intolerablesermon that wagged its crippled tail at the end of each and every oneof them. No matter what the subject might be, a brainracking effort wasmade to squirm it into some aspect or other that the moral and religiousmind could contemplate with edification. The glaring insincerity ofthese sermons was not sufficient to compass the banishment of thefashion from the schools, and it is not sufficient today; it never willbe sufficient while the world stands, perhaps. There is no school inall our land where the young ladies do not feel obliged to close theircompositions with a sermon; and you will find that the sermon of themost frivolous and the least religious girl in the school is alwaysthe longest and the most relentlessly pious. But enough of this. Homelytruth is unpalatable.
Let us return to the “Examination.” The first composition that was readwas one entitled “Is this, then, Life?” Perhaps the reader can endure anextract from it:
“In the common walks of life, with what delightful emotions does theyouthful mind look forward to some anticipated scene of festivity!Imagination is busy sketching rose-tinted pictures of joy. In fancy, thevoluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the festive throng, ‘theobserved of all observers.’ Her graceful form, arrayed in snowy robes,is whirling through the mazes of the joyous dance; her eye is brightest,her step is lightest in the gay assembly.
“In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by, and the welcome hourarrives for her entrance into the Elysian world, of which she hashad such bright dreams. How fairy-like does everything appear to herenchanted vision! Each new scene is more charming than the last. Butafter a while she finds that beneath this goodly exterior, all isvanity, the flattery which once charmed her soul, now grates harshlyupon her ear; the ballroom has lost its charms; and with wasted healthand imbittered heart, she turns away with the conviction that earthlypleasures cannot satisfy the longings of the soul!”
And so forth and so on. There was a buzz of gratification from time totime during the reading, accompanied by whispered ejaculations of “Howsweet!” “How eloquent!” “So true!” etc., and after the thing had closedwith a peculiarly afflicting sermon the applause was enthusiastic.
Then arose a slim, melancholy girl, whose face had the “interesting” paleness that comes of pills and indigestion, and read a “poem.” Twostanzas of it will do:
“A MISSOURI MAIDEN’S FAREWELL TO ALABAMA
“Alabama, goodbye! I love thee well! But yet for a while do I leave theenow! Sad, yes, sad thoughts of thee my heart doth swell, And burningrecollections throng my brow! For I have wandered through thy flowerywoods; Have roamed and read near Tallapoosa’s stream; Have listened toTallassee’s warring floods, And wooed on Coosa’s side Aurora’s beam.
“Yet shame I not to bear an o’erfull heart, Nor blush to turn behindmy tearful eyes; ’Tis from no stranger land I now must part, ’Tis to nostrangers left I yield these sighs. Welcome and home were mine withinthis State, Whose vales I leave—whose spires fade fast from me And coldmust be mine eyes, and heart, and tete, When, dear Alabama! they turncold on thee!” There were very few there who knew what “tete” meant, butthe poem was very satisfactory, nevertheless.
Next appeared a dark-complexioned, black-eyed, black-haired young lady,who paused an impressive moment, assumed a tragic expression, and beganto read in a measured, solemn tone:
“A VISION
“Dark and tempestuous was night. Around the throne on high not a singlestar quivered; but the deep intonations of the heavy thunder constantlyvibrated upon the ear; whilst the terrific lightning revelled in angrymood through the cloudy chambers of heaven, seeming to scorn the powerexerted over its terror by the illustrious Franklin! Even the boisterouswinds unanimously came forth from their mystic homes, and blusteredabout as if to enhance by their aid the wildness of the scene.
“At such a time, so dark, so dreary, for human sympathy my very spiritsighed; but instead thereof,
“‘My dearest friend, my counsellor, my comforter and guide—My joy ingrief, my second bliss in joy,’ came to my side. She moved like one ofthose bright beings pictured in the sunny walks of fancy’s Eden bythe romantic and young, a queen of beauty unadorned save by her owntranscendent loveliness. So soft was her step, it failed to make even asound, and but for the magical thrill imparted by her genial touch,as other unobtrusive beauties, she would have glided awayunperceived—unsought. A strange sadness rested upon her features, likeicy tears upon the robe of December, as she pointed to the contendingelements without, and bade me contemplate the two beings presented.”
This nightmare occupied some ten pages of manuscript and wound up with asermon so destructive of all hope to non-Presbyterians that it tookthe first prize. This composition was considered to be the very finesteffort of the evening. The mayor of the village, in delivering the prizeto the author of it, made a warm speech in which he said that it was byfar the most “eloquent” thing he had ever listened to, and that DanielWebster himself might well be proud of it.
It may be remarked, in passing, that the number of compositions in whichthe word “beauteous” was over-fondled, and human experience referred toas “life’s page,” was up to the usual average.
Now the master, mellow almost to the verge of geniality, put his chairaside, turned his back to the audience, and began to draw a map ofAmerica on the blackboard, to exercise the geography class upon. But hemade a sad business of it with his unsteady hand, and a smothered titterrippled over the house. He knew what the matter was, and set himself toright it. He sponged out lines and remade them; but he only distortedthem more than ever, and the tittering was more pronounced. He threw hisentire attention upon his work, now, as if determined not to be put downby the mirth. He felt that all eyes were fastened upon him; he imaginedhe was succeeding, and yet the tittering continued; it even manifestlyincreased. And well it might. There was a garret above, pierced witha scuttle over his head; and down through this scuttle came a cat,suspended around the haunches by a string; she had a rag tied abouther head and jaws to keep her from mewing; as she slowly descended shecurved upward and clawed at the string, she swung downward and clawedat the intangible air. The tittering rose higher and higher—the cat waswithin six inches of the absorbed teacher’s head—down, down, a littlelower, and she grabbed his wig with her desperate claws, clung to it,and was snatched up into the garret in an instant with her trophy stillin her possession! And how the light did blaze abroad from the master’sbald pate—for the signpainter’s boy had _gilded_ it!
That broke up the meeting. The boys were avenged. Vacation had come.
NOTE:—The pretended “compositions” quoted in this chapter are takenwithout alteration from a volume entitled “Prose and Poetry, by aWestern Lady”—but they are exactly and precisely after the schoolgirlpattern, and hence are much happier than any mere imitations could be.



CHAPTER XXII

TOM joined the new order of Cadets of Temperance, being attracted by theshowy character of their “regalia.” He promised to abstain from smoking,chewing, and profanity as long as he remained a member. Now he found outa new thing—namely, that to promise not to do a thing is the surest wayin the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing. Tom soonfound himself tormented with a desire to drink and swear; the desiregrew to be so intense that nothing but the hope of a chance to displayhimself in his red sash kept him from withdrawing from the order. Fourthof July was coming; but he soon gave that up—gave it up before he hadworn his shackles over forty-eight hours—and fixed his hopes upon oldJudge Frazer, justice of the peace, who was apparently on his deathbedand would have a big public funeral, since he was so high an official.During three days Tom was deeply concerned about the Judge’s conditionand hungry for news of it. Sometimes his hopes ran high—so high thathe would venture to get out his regalia and practise before thelooking-glass. But the Judge had a most discouraging way of fluctuating.At last he was pronounced upon the mend—and then convalescent. Tom wasdisgusted; and felt a sense of injury, too. He handed in his resignationat once—and that night the Judge suffered a relapse and died. Tomresolved that he would never trust a man like that again.
The funeral was a fine thing. The Cadets paraded in a style calculatedto kill the late member with envy. Tom was a free boy again,however—there was something in that. He could drink and swear, now—butfound to his surprise that he did not want to. The simple fact that hecould, took the desire away, and the charm of it.
Tom presently wondered to find that his coveted vacation was beginningto hang a little heavily on his hands.
He attempted a diary—but nothing happened during three days, and so heabandoned it.
The first of all the negro minstrel shows came to town, and made asensation. Tom and Joe Harper got up a band of performers and were happyfor two days.
Even the Glorious Fourth was in some sense a failure, for it rainedhard, there was no procession in consequence, and the greatest manin the world (as Tom supposed), Mr. Benton, an actual United StatesSenator, proved an overwhelming disappointment—for he was nottwenty-five feet high, nor even anywhere in the neighborhood of it.
A circus came. The boys played circus for three days afterward in tentsmade of rag carpeting—admission, three pins for boys, two for girls—andthen circusing was abandoned.
A phrenologist and a mesmerizer came—and went again and left the villageduller and drearier than ever.
There were some boys-and-girls’ parties, but they were so few and sodelightful that they only made the aching voids between ache the harder.
Becky Thatcher was gone to her Constantinople home to stay with herparents during vacation—so there was no bright side to life anywhere.
The dreadful secret of the murder was a chronic misery. It was a verycancer for permanency and pain.
Then came the measles.
During two long weeks Tom lay a prisoner, dead to the world and itshappenings. He was very ill, he was interested in nothing. When he gotupon his feet at last and moved feebly downtown, a melancholy change hadcome over everything and every creature. There had been a “revival,” andeverybody had “got religion,” not only the adults, but even the boys andgirls. Tom went about, hoping against hope for the sight of one blessedsinful face, but disappointment crossed him everywhere. He found JoeHarper studying a Testament, and turned sadly away from the depressingspectacle. He sought Ben Rogers, and found him visiting the poor with abasket of tracts. He hunted up Jim Hollis, who called his attention tothe precious blessing of his late measles as a warning. Every boyhe encountered added another ton to his depression; and when, indesperation, he flew for refuge at last to the bosom of Huckleberry Finnand was received with a Scriptural quotation, his heart broke and hecrept home and to bed realizing that he alone of all the town was lost,forever and forever.
And that night there came on a terrific storm, with driving rain, awfulclaps of thunder and blinding sheets of lightning. He covered his headwith the bedclothes and waited in a horror of suspense for his doom; forhe had not the shadow of a doubt that all this hubbub was about him.He believed he had taxed the forbearance of the powers above to theextremity of endurance and that this was the result. It might haveseemed to him a waste of pomp and ammunition to kill a bug with abattery of artillery, but there seemed nothing incongruous about thegetting up such an expensive thunderstorm as this to knock the turf fromunder an insect like himself.
By and by the tempest spent itself and died without accomplishing itsobject. The boy’s first impulse was to be grateful, and reform. Hissecond was to wait—for there might not be any more storms.
The next day the doctors were back; Tom had relapsed. The three weeks hespent on his back this time seemed an entire age. When he got abroadat last he was hardly grateful that he had been spared, remembering howlonely was his estate, how companionless and forlorn he was. He driftedlistlessly down the street and found Jim Hollis acting as judge in ajuvenile court that was trying a cat for murder, in the presence of hervictim, a bird. He found Joe Harper and Huck Finn up an alley eating astolen melon. Poor lads! they—like Tom—had suffered a relapse.



CHAPTER XXIII

AT last the sleepy atmosphere was stirred—and vigorously: the murdertrial came on in the court. It became the absorbing topic of villagetalk immediately. Tom could not get away from it. Every reference tothe murder sent a shudder to his heart, for his troubled conscienceand fears almost persuaded him that these remarks were put forth inhis hearing as “feelers”; he did not see how he could be suspected ofknowing anything about the murder, but still he could not be comfortablein the midst of this gossip. It kept him in a cold shiver all the time.He took Huck to a lonely place to have a talk with him. It would be somerelief to unseal his tongue for a little while; to divide his burden ofdistress with another sufferer. Moreover, he wanted to assure himselfthat Huck had remained discreet.
“Huck, have you ever told anybody about—that?”
“’Bout what?”
“You know what.”
“Oh—’course I haven’t.”
“Never a word?”
“Never a solitary word, so help me. What makes you ask?”
“Well, I was afeard.”
“Why, Tom Sawyer, we wouldn’t be alive two days if that got found out._You_ know that.”
Tom felt more comfortable. After a pause:
“Huck, they couldn’t anybody get you to tell, could they?”
“Get me to tell? Why, if I wanted that halfbreed devil to drownd me theycould get me to tell. They ain’t no different way.”
“Well, that’s all right, then. I reckon we’re safe as long as we keepmum. But let’s swear again, anyway. It’s more surer.”
“I’m agreed.”
So they swore again with dread solemnities.
“What is the talk around, Huck? I’ve heard a power of it.”
“Talk? Well, it’s just Muff Potter, Muff Potter, Muff Potter all thetime. It keeps me in a sweat, constant, so’s I want to hide som’ers.”
“That’s just the same way they go on round me. I reckon he’s a goner.Don’t you feel sorry for him, sometimes?”
“Most always—most always. He ain’t no account; but then he hain’t everdone anything to hurt anybody. Just fishes a little, to get money toget drunk on—and loafs around considerable; but lord, we all dothat—leastways most of us—preachers and such like. But he’s kind ofgood—he give me half a fish, once, when there warn’t enough for two; andlots of times he’s kind of stood by me when I was out of luck.”
“Well, he’s mended kites for me, Huck, and knitted hooks on to my line.I wish we could get him out of there.”
“My! we couldn’t get him out, Tom. And besides, ’twouldn’t do any good;they’d ketch him again.”
“Yes—so they would. But I hate to hear ’em abuse him so like the dickenswhen he never done—that.”
“I do too, Tom. Lord, I hear ’em say he’s the bloodiest looking villainin this country, and they wonder he wasn’t ever hung before.”
“Yes, they talk like that, all the time. I’ve heard ’em say that if hewas to get free they’d lynch him.”
“And they’d do it, too.”
The boys had a long talk, but it brought them little comfort. As thetwilight drew on, they found themselves hanging about the neighborhoodof the little isolated jail, perhaps with an undefined hope thatsomething would happen that might clear away their difficulties. Butnothing happened; there seemed to be no angels or fairies interested inthis luckless captive.
The boys did as they had often done before—went to the cell grating andgave Potter some tobacco and matches. He was on the ground floor andthere were no guards.
His gratitude for their gifts had always smote their consciencesbefore—it cut deeper than ever, this time. They felt cowardly andtreacherous to the last degree when Potter said:
“You’ve been mighty good to me, boys—better’n anybody else in this town.And I don’t forget it, I don’t. Often I says to myself, says I, ‘I usedto mend all the boys’ kites and things, and show ’em where the goodfishin’ places was, and befriend ’em what I could, and now they’veall forgot old Muff when he’s in trouble; but Tom don’t, and Huckdon’t—_they_ don’t forget him, says I, ‘and I don’t forget them.’ Well,boys, I done an awful thing—drunk and crazy at the time—that’s the onlyway I account for it—and now I got to swing for it, and it’s right.Right, and _best_, too, I reckon—hope so, anyway. Well, we won’t talkabout that. I don’t want to make _you_ feel bad; you’ve befriended me.But what I want to say, is, don’t _you_ ever get drunk—then you won’tever get here. Stand a litter furder west—so—that’s it; it’s a primecomfort to see faces that’s friendly when a body’s in such a muckof trouble, and there don’t none come here but yourn. Good friendlyfaces—good friendly faces. Git up on one another’s backs and let metouch ’em. That’s it. Shake hands—yourn’ll come through the bars, butmine’s too big. Little hands, and weak—but they’ve helped Muff Potter apower, and they’d help him more if they could.”
Tom went home miserable, and his dreams that night were full of horrors.The next day and the day after, he hung about the courtroom, drawn by analmost irresistible impulse to go in, but forcing himself to stay out.Huck was having the same experience. They studiously avoided each other.Each wandered away, from time to time, but the same dismal fascinationalways brought them back presently. Tom kept his ears open when idlerssauntered out of the courtroom, but invariably heard distressingnews—the toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poorPotter. At the end of the second day the village talk was to the effectthat Injun Joe’s evidence stood firm and unshaken, and that there wasnot the slightest question as to what the jury’s verdict would be.
Tom was out late, that night, and came to bed through the window. Hewas in a tremendous state of excitement. It was hours before he got tosleep. All the village flocked to the courthouse the next morning, forthis was to be the great day. Both sexes were about equally representedin the packed audience. After a long wait the jury filed in and tooktheir places; shortly afterward, Potter, pale and haggard, timid andhopeless, was brought in, with chains upon him, and seated where allthe curious eyes could stare at him; no less conspicuous was Injun Joe,stolid as ever. There was another pause, and then the judge arrived andthe sheriff proclaimed the opening of the court. The usual whisperingsamong the lawyers and gathering together of papers followed. Thesedetails and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparationthat was as impressive as it was fascinating.
Now a witness was called who testified that he found Muff Potter washingin the brook, at an early hour of the morning that the murder wasdiscovered, and that he immediately sneaked away. After some furtherquestioning, counsel for the prosecution said:
“Take the witness.”
The prisoner raised his eyes for a moment, but dropped them again whenhis own counsel said:
“I have no questions to ask him.”
The next witness proved the finding of the knife near the corpse.Counsel for the prosecution said:
“Take the witness.”
“I have no questions to ask him,” Potter’s lawyer replied.
A third witness swore he had often seen the knife in Potter’spossession.
“Take the witness.”
Counsel for Potter declined to question him. The faces of the audiencebegan to betray annoyance. Did this attorney mean to throw away hisclient’s life without an effort?
Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter’s guilty behavior whenbrought to the scene of the murder. They were allowed to leave the standwithout being cross-questioned.
Every detail of the damaging circumstances that occurred in thegraveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well wasbrought out by credible witnesses, but none of them were cross-examinedby Potter’s lawyer. The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the houseexpressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench.Counsel for the prosecution now said:
“By the oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion, we havefastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of question, upon theunhappy prisoner at the bar. We rest our case here.”
A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his hands androcked his body softly to and fro, while a painful silence reignedin the courtroom. Many men were moved, and many women’s compassiontestified itself in tears. Counsel for the defence rose and said:
“Your honor, in our remarks at the opening of this trial, weforeshadowed our purpose to prove that our client did this fearful deedwhile under the influence of a blind and irresponsible delirium producedby drink. We have changed our mind. We shall not offer that plea.” [Thento the clerk:] “Call Thomas Sawyer!”
A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even exceptingPotter’s. Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom ashe rose and took his place upon the stand. The boy looked wild enough,for he was badly scared. The oath was administered.
“Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about thehour of midnight?”
Tom glanced at Injun Joe’s iron face and his tongue failed him. Theaudience listened breathless, but the words refused to come. After a fewmoments, however, the boy got a little of his strength back, and managedto put enough of it into his voice to make part of the house hear:
“In the graveyard!”
“A little bit louder, please. Don’t be afraid. You were—”
“In the graveyard.”
A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe’s face.
“Were you anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Speak up—just a trifle louder. How near were you?”
“Near as I am to you.”
“Were you hidden, or not?”
“I was hid.”
“Where?”
“Behind the elms that’s on the edge of the grave.”
Injun Joe gave a barely perceptible start.
“Any one with you?”
“Yes, sir. I went there with—”
“Wait—wait a moment. Never mind mentioning your companion’s name. Wewill produce him at the proper time. Did you carry anything there withyou.”
Tom hesitated and looked confused.
“Speak out, my boy—don’t be diffident. The truth is always respectable.What did you take there?”
“Only a—a—dead cat.”
There was a ripple of mirth, which the court checked.
“We will produce the skeleton of that cat. Now, my boy, tell useverything that occurred—tell it in your own way—don’t skip anything,and don’t be afraid.”
Tom began—hesitatingly at first, but as he warmed to his subject hiswords flowed more and more easily; in a little while every sound ceasedbut his own voice; every eye fixed itself upon him; with parted lips andbated breath the audience hung upon his words, taking no note of time,rapt in the ghastly fascinations of the tale. The strain upon pentemotion reached its climax when the boy said:
“—and as the doctor fetched the board around and Muff Potter fell, InjunJoe jumped with the knife and—”
Crash! Quick as lightning the halfbreed sprang for a window, tore hisway through all opposers, and was gone!



CHAPTER XXIV

TOM was a glittering hero once more—the pet of the old, the envy of theyoung. His name even went into immortal print, for the village papermagnified him. There were some that believed he would be President, yet,if he escaped hanging.
As usual, the fickle, unreasoning world took Muff Potter to its bosomand fondled him as lavishly as it had abused him before. But that sortof conduct is to the world’s credit; therefore it is not well to findfault with it.
Tom’s days were days of splendor and exultation to him, but his nightswere seasons of horror. Injun Joe infested all his dreams, and alwayswith doom in his eye. Hardly any temptation could persuade the boyto stir abroad after nightfall. Poor Huck was in the same state ofwretchedness and terror, for Tom had told the whole story to the lawyerthe night before the great day of the trial, and Huck was sore afraidthat his share in the business might leak out, yet, notwithstandingInjun Joe’s flight had saved him the suffering of testifying in court.The poor fellow had got the attorney to promise secrecy, but what ofthat? Since Tom’s harassed conscience had managed to drive him to thelawyer’s house by night and wring a dread tale from lips that hadbeen sealed with the dismalest and most formidable of oaths, Huck’sconfidence in the human race was wellnigh obliterated.
Daily Muff Potter’s gratitude made Tom glad he had spoken; but nightlyhe wished he had sealed up his tongue.
Half the time Tom was afraid Injun Joe would never be captured; theother half he was afraid he would be. He felt sure he never could draw asafe breath again until that man was dead and he had seen the corpse.
Rewards had been offered, the country had been scoured, but no InjunJoe was found. One of those omniscient and aweinspiring marvels, adetective, came up from St. Louis, moused around, shook his head, lookedwise, and made that sort of astounding success which members of thatcraft usually achieve. That is to say, he “found a clew.” But you can’thang a “clew” for murder, and so after that detective had got throughand gone home, Tom felt just as insecure as he was before.
The slow days drifted on, and each left behind it a slightly lightenedweight of apprehension.



CHAPTER XXV

THERE comes a time in every rightly-constructed boy’s life when he hasa raging desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure. This desiresuddenly came upon Tom one day. He sallied out to find Joe Harper,but failed of success. Next he sought Ben Rogers; he had gone fishing.Presently he stumbled upon Huck Finn the Red-Handed. Huck wouldanswer. Tom took him to a private place and opened the matter to himconfidentially. Huck was willing. Huck was always willing to take a handin any enterprise that offered entertainment and required no capital,for he had a troublesome superabundance of that sort of time which isnot money. “Where’ll we dig?” said Huck.
“Oh, most anywhere.”
“Why, is it hid all around?”
“No, indeed it ain’t. It’s hid in mighty particular places,Huck—sometimes on islands, sometimes in rotten chests under the end ofa limb of an old dead tree, just where the shadow falls at midnight; butmostly under the floor in ha’nted houses.”
“Who hides it?”
“Why, robbers, of course—who’d you reckon? Sunday-schoolsup’rintendents?”
“I don’t know. If ’twas mine I wouldn’t hide it; I’d spend it and have agood time.”
“So would I. But robbers don’t do that way. They always hide it andleave it there.”
“Don’t they come after it any more?”
“No, they think they will, but they generally forget the marks, or elsethey die. Anyway, it lays there a long time and gets rusty; and by andby somebody finds an old yellow paper that tells how to find the marks—apaper that’s got to be ciphered over about a week because it’s mostlysigns and hy’roglyphics.”
“Hyro—which?”
“Hy’roglyphics—pictures and things, you know, that don’t seem to meananything.”
“Have you got one of them papers, Tom?”
“No.”
“Well then, how you going to find the marks?”
“I don’t want any marks. They always bury it under a ha’nted house or onan island, or under a dead tree that’s got one limb sticking out. Well,we’ve tried Jackson’s Island a little, and we can try it again sometime; and there’s the old ha’nted house up the Still-House branch, andthere’s lots of dead-limb trees—dead loads of ’em.”
“Is it under all of them?”
“How you talk! No!”
“Then how you going to know which one to go for?”
“Go for all of ’em!”
“Why, Tom, it’ll take all summer.”
“Well, what of that? Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollarsin it, all rusty and gray, or rotten chest full of di’monds. How’sthat?”
Huck’s eyes glowed.
“That’s bully. Plenty bully enough for me. Just you gimme the hundreddollars and I don’t want no di’monds.”
“All right. But I bet you I ain’t going to throw off on di’monds. Someof ’em’s worth twenty dollars apiece—there ain’t any, hardly, but’sworth six bits or a dollar.”
“No! Is that so?”
“Cert’nly—anybody’ll tell you so. Hain’t you ever seen one, Huck?”
“Not as I remember.”
“Oh, kings have slathers of them.”
“Well, I don’ know no kings, Tom.”
“I reckon you don’t. But if you was to go to Europe you’d see a raft of’em hopping around.”
“Do they hop?”
“Hop?—your granny! No!”
“Well, what did you say they did, for?”
“Shucks, I only meant you’d _see_ ’em—not hopping, of course—what dothey want to hop for?—but I mean you’d just see ’em—scattered around,you know, in a kind of a general way. Like that old humpbacked Richard.”
“Richard? What’s his other name?”
“He didn’t have any other name. Kings don’t have any but a given name.”
“No?”
“But they don’t.”
“Well, if they like it, Tom, all right; but I don’t want to be a kingand have only just a given name, like a nigger. But say—where you goingto dig first?”
“Well, I don’t know. S’pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on thehill t’other side of Still-House branch?”
“I’m agreed.”
So they got a crippled pick and a shovel, and set out on theirthree-mile tramp. They arrived hot and panting, and threw themselvesdown in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke.
“I like this,” said Tom.
“So do I.”
“Say, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what you going to do with yourshare?”
“Well, I’ll have pie and a glass of soda every day, and I’ll go to everycircus that comes along. I bet I’ll have a gay time.”
“Well, ain’t you going to save any of it?”
“Save it? What for?”
“Why, so as to have something to live on, by and by.”
“Oh, that ain’t any use. Pap would come back to thish-yer town some dayand get his claws on it if I didn’t hurry up, and I tell you he’d cleanit out pretty quick. What you going to do with yourn, Tom?”
“I’m going to buy a new drum, and a sure’nough sword, and a red necktieand a bull pup, and get married.”
“Married!”
“That’s it.”
“Tom, you—why, you ain’t in your right mind.”
“Wait—you’ll see.”
“Well, that’s the foolishest thing you could do. Look at pap and mymother. Fight! Why, they used to fight all the time. I remember, mightywell.”
“That ain’t anything. The girl I’m going to marry won’t fight.”
“Tom, I reckon they’re all alike. They’ll all comb a body. Now youbetter think ’bout this awhile. I tell you you better. What’s the nameof the gal?”
“It ain’t a gal at all—it’s a girl.”
“It’s all the same, I reckon; some says gal, some says girl—both’sright, like enough. Anyway, what’s her name, Tom?”
“I’ll tell you some time—not now.”
“All right—that’ll do. Only if you get married I’ll be more lonesomerthan ever.”
“No you won’t. You’ll come and live with me. Now stir out of this andwe’ll go to digging.”
They worked and sweated for half an hour. No result. They toiled anotherhalfhour. Still no result. Huck said:
“Do they always bury it as deep as this?”
“Sometimes—not always. Not generally. I reckon we haven’t got the rightplace.”
So they chose a new spot and began again. The labor dragged a little,but still they made progress. They pegged away in silence for some time.Finally Huck leaned on his shovel, swabbed the beaded drops from hisbrow with his sleeve, and said:
“Where you going to dig next, after we get this one?”
“I reckon maybe we’ll tackle the old tree that’s over yonder on CardiffHill back of the widow’s.”
“I reckon that’ll be a good one. But won’t the widow take it away fromus, Tom? It’s on her land.”
“_She_ take it away! Maybe she’d like to try it once. Whoever finds oneof these hid treasures, it belongs to him. It don’t make any differencewhose land it’s on.”
That was satisfactory. The work went on. By and by Huck said:
“Blame it, we must be in the wrong place again. What do you think?”
“It is mighty curious, Huck. I don’t understand it. Sometimes witchesinterfere. I reckon maybe that’s what’s the trouble now.”
“Shucks! Witches ain’t got no power in the daytime.”
“Well, that’s so. I didn’t think of that. Oh, I know what the matter is!What a blamed lot of fools we are! You got to find out where the shadowof the limb falls at midnight, and that’s where you dig!”
“Then consound it, we’ve fooled away all this work for nothing. Now hangit all, we got to come back in the night. It’s an awful long way. Canyou get out?”
“I bet I will. We’ve got to do it tonight, too, because if somebody seesthese holes they’ll know in a minute what’s here and they’ll go for it.”
“Well, I’ll come around and maow tonight.”
“All right. Let’s hide the tools in the bushes.”
The boys were there that night, about the appointed time. They sat inthe shadow waiting. It was a lonely place, and an hour made solemn byold traditions. Spirits whispered in the rustling leaves, ghosts lurkedin the murky nooks, the deep baying of a hound floated up out of thedistance, an owl answered with his sepulchral note. The boys weresubdued by these solemnities, and talked little. By and by they judgedthat twelve had come; they marked where the shadow fell, and began todig. Their hopes commenced to rise. Their interest grew stronger, andtheir industry kept pace with it. The hole deepened and still deepened,but every time their hearts jumped to hear the pick strike uponsomething, they only suffered a new disappointment. It was only a stoneor a chunk. At last Tom said:
“It ain’t any use, Huck, we’re wrong again.”
“Well, but we _can’t_ be wrong. We spotted the shadder to a dot.”
“I know it, but then there’s another thing.”
“What’s that?”.
“Why, we only guessed at the time. Like enough it was too late or tooearly.”
Huck dropped his shovel.
“That’s it,” said he. “That’s the very trouble. We got to give this oneup. We can’t ever tell the right time, and besides this kind of thing’stoo awful, here this time of night with witches and ghosts a-flutteringaround so. I feel as if something’s behind me all the time; and I’mafeard to turn around, becuz maybe there’s others in front a-waiting fora chance. I been creeping all over, ever since I got here.”
“Well, I’ve been pretty much so, too, Huck. They most always put in adead man when they bury a treasure under a tree, to look out for it.”
“Lordy!”
“Yes, they do. I’ve always heard that.”
“Tom, I don’t like to fool around much where there’s dead people. Abody’s bound to get into trouble with ’em, sure.”
“I don’t like to stir ’em up, either. S’pose this one here was to stickhis skull out and say something!”
“Don’t Tom! It’s awful.”
“Well, it just is. Huck, I don’t feel comfortable a bit.”
“Say, Tom, let’s give this place up, and try somewheres else.”
“All right, I reckon we better.”
“What’ll it be?”
Tom considered awhile; and then said:
“The ha’nted house. That’s it!”
“Blame it, I don’t like ha’nted houses, Tom. Why, they’re a dern sightworse’n dead people. Dead people might talk, maybe, but they don’t comesliding around in a shroud, when you ain’t noticing, and peep over yourshoulder all of a sudden and grit their teeth, the way a ghost does. Icouldn’t stand such a thing as that, Tom—nobody could.”
“Yes, but, Huck, ghosts don’t travel around only at night. They won’thender us from digging there in the daytime.”
“Well, that’s so. But you know mighty well people don’t go about thatha’nted house in the day nor the night.”
“Well, that’s mostly because they don’t like to go where a man’s beenmurdered, anyway—but nothing’s ever been seen around that house exceptin the night—just some blue lights slipping by the windows—no regularghosts.”
“Well, where you see one of them blue lights flickering around, Tom,you can bet there’s a ghost mighty close behind it. It stands to reason.Becuz you know that they don’t anybody but ghosts use ’em.”
“Yes, that’s so. But anyway they don’t come around in the daytime, sowhat’s the use of our being afeard?”
“Well, all right. We’ll tackle the ha’nted house if you say so—but Ireckon it’s taking chances.”
They had started down the hill by this time. There in the middle of themoonlit valley below them stood the “ha’nted” house, utterly isolated,its fences gone long ago, rank weeds smothering the very doorsteps, thechimney crumbled to ruin, the window-sashes vacant, a corner of the roofcaved in. The boys gazed awhile, half expecting to see a blue light flitpast a window; then talking in a low tone, as befitted the time and thecircumstances, they struck far off to the right, to give the hauntedhouse a wide berth, and took their way homeward through the woods thatadorned the rearward side of Cardiff Hill.



CHAPTER XXVI

ABOUT noon the next day the boys arrived at the dead tree; they had comefor their tools. Tom was impatient to go to the haunted house; Huck wasmeasurably so, also—but suddenly said:
“Lookyhere, Tom, do you know what day it is?”
Tom mentally ran over the days of the week, and then quickly lifted hiseyes with a startled look in them—
“My! I never once thought of it, Huck!”
“Well, I didn’t neither, but all at once it popped onto me that it wasFriday.”
“Blame it, a body can’t be too careful, Huck. We might ’a’ got into anawful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday.”
“_Might_! Better say we _would_! There’s some lucky days, maybe, butFriday ain’t.”
“Any fool knows that. I don’t reckon _you_ was the first that found itout, Huck.”
“Well, I never said I was, did I? And Friday ain’t all, neither. I had arotten bad dream last night—dreampt about rats.”
“No! Sure sign of trouble. Did they fight?”
“No.”
“Well, that’s good, Huck. When they don’t fight it’s only a sign thatthere’s trouble around, you know. All we got to do is to look mightysharp and keep out of it. We’ll drop this thing for today, and play. Doyou know Robin Hood, Huck?”
“No. Who’s Robin Hood?”
“Why, he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England—and thebest. He was a robber.”
“Cracky, I wisht I was. Who did he rob?”
“Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like. Buthe never bothered the poor. He loved ’em. He always divided up with ’emperfectly square.”
“Well, he must ’a’ been a brick.”
“I bet you he was, Huck. Oh, he was the noblest man that ever was.They ain’t any such men now, I can tell you. He could lick any man inEngland, with one hand tied behind him; and he could take his yew bowand plug a ten-cent piece every time, a mile and a half.”
“What’s a _yew_ bow?”
“I don’t know. It’s some kind of a bow, of course. And if he hit thatdime only on the edge he would set down and cry—and curse. But we’llplay Robin Hood—it’s nobby fun. I’ll learn you.”
“I’m agreed.”
So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then casting ayearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about themorrow’s prospects and possibilities there. As the sun began to sinkinto the west they took their way homeward athwart the long shadowsof the trees and soon were buried from sight in the forests of CardiffHill.
On Saturday, shortly after noon, the boys were at the dead tree again.They had a smoke and a chat in the shade, and then dug a little in theirlast hole, not with great hope, but merely because Tom said there wereso many cases where people had given up a treasure after getting downwithin six inches of it, and then somebody else had come along andturned it up with a single thrust of a shovel. The thing failed thistime, however, so the boys shouldered their tools and went away feelingthat they had not trifled with fortune, but had fulfilled all therequirements that belong to the business of treasure-hunting.
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird andgrisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun,and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of theplace, that they were afraid, for a moment, to venture in. Then theycrept to the door and took a trembling peep. They saw a weedgrown,floorless room, unplastered, an ancient fireplace, vacant windows,a ruinous staircase; and here, there, and everywhere hung ragged andabandoned cobwebs. They presently entered, softly, with quickenedpulses, talking in whispers, ears alert to catch the slightest sound,and muscles tense and ready for instant retreat.
In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave theplace a critical and interested examination, rather admiring their ownboldness, and wondering at it, too. Next they wanted to look upstairs.This was something like cutting off retreat, but they got to daringeach other, and of course there could be but one result—they threw theirtools into a corner and made the ascent. Up there were the same signs ofdecay. In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery, but thepromise was a fraud—there was nothing in it. Their courage was up nowand well in hand. They were about to go down and begin work when—
“Sh!” said Tom.
“What is it?” whispered Huck, blanching with fright.
“Sh!... There!... Hear it?”
“Yes!... Oh, my! Let’s run!”
“Keep still! Don’t you budge! They’re coming right toward the door.”
The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes toknotholes in the planking, and lay waiting, in a misery of fear.
“They’ve stopped.... No—coming.... Here they are. Don’t whisper anotherword, Huck. My goodness, I wish I was out of this!”
Two men entered. Each boy said to himself: “There’s the old deaf anddumb Spaniard that’s been about town once or twice lately—never sawt’other man before.”
“T’other” was a ragged, unkempt creature, with nothing very pleasantin his face. The Spaniard was wrapped in a serape; he had bushy whitewhiskers; long white hair flowed from under his sombrero, and he woregreen goggles. When they came in, “t’other” was talking in a low voice;they sat down on the ground, facing the door, with their backs to thewall, and the speaker continued his remarks. His manner became lessguarded and his words more distinct as he proceeded:
“No,” said he, “I’ve thought it all over, and I don’t like it. It’sdangerous.”
“Dangerous!” grunted the “deaf and dumb” Spaniard—to the vast surpriseof the boys. “Milksop!”
This voice made the boys gasp and quake. It was Injun Joe’s! There wassilence for some time. Then Joe said:
“What’s any more dangerous than that job up yonder—but nothing’s come ofit.”
“That’s different. Away up the river so, and not another house about.’Twon’t ever be known that we tried, anyway, long as we didn’t succeed.”
“Well, what’s more dangerous than coming here in the daytime!—anybodywould suspicion us that saw us.”
“I know that. But there warn’t any other place as handy after that foolof a job. I want to quit this shanty. I wanted to yesterday, only itwarn’t any use trying to stir out of here, with those infernal boysplaying over there on the hill right in full view.”
“Those infernal boys” quaked again under the inspiration of this remark,and thought how lucky it was that they had remembered it was Friday andconcluded to wait a day. They wished in their hearts they had waited ayear.
The two men got out some food and made a luncheon. After a long andthoughtful silence, Injun Joe said:
“Look here, lad—you go back up the river where you belong. Wait theretill you hear from me. I’ll take the chances on dropping into this townjust once more, for a look. We’ll do that ‘dangerous’ job after I’vespied around a little and think things look well for it. Then for Texas!We’ll leg it together!”
This was satisfactory. Both men presently fell to yawning, and Injun Joesaid:
“I’m dead for sleep! It’s your turn to watch.”
He curled down in the weeds and soon began to snore. His comrade stirredhim once or twice and he became quiet. Presently the watcher began tonod; his head drooped lower and lower, both men began to snore now.
The boys drew a long, grateful breath. Tom whispered:
“Now’s our chance—come!”
Huck said:
“I can’t—I’d die if they was to wake.”
Tom urged—Huck held back. At last Tom rose slowly and softly, andstarted alone. But the first step he made wrung such a hideous creakfrom the crazy floor that he sank down almost dead with fright. He nevermade a second attempt. The boys lay there counting the dragging momentstill it seemed to them that time must be done and eternity growing gray;and then they were grateful to note that at last the sun was setting.
Now one snore ceased. Injun Joe sat up, stared around—smiled grimly uponhis comrade, whose head was drooping upon his knees—stirred him up withhis foot and said:
“Here! _You’re_ a watchman, ain’t you! All right, though—nothing’shappened.”
“My! have I been asleep?”
“Oh, partly, partly. Nearly time for us to be moving, pard. What’ll wedo with what little swag we’ve got left?”
“I don’t know—leave it here as we’ve always done, I reckon. No use totake it away till we start south. Six hundred and fifty in silver’ssomething to carry.”
“Well—all right—it won’t matter to come here once more.”
“No—but I’d say come in the night as we used to do—it’s better.”
“Yes: but look here; it may be a good while before I get the rightchance at that job; accidents might happen; ’tain’t in such a very goodplace; we’ll just regularly bury it—and bury it deep.”
“Good idea,” said the comrade, who walked across the room, knelt down,raised one of the rearward hearth-stones and took out a bag that jingledpleasantly. He subtracted from it twenty or thirty dollars for himselfand as much for Injun Joe, and passed the bag to the latter, who was onhis knees in the corner, now, digging with his bowie-knife.
The boys forgot all their fears, all their miseries in an instant. Withgloating eyes they watched every movement. Luck!—the splendor of it wasbeyond all imagination! Six hundred dollars was money enough to makehalf a dozen boys rich! Here was treasure-hunting under the happiestauspices—there would not be any bothersome uncertainty as to where todig. They nudged each other every moment—eloquent nudges and easilyunderstood, for they simply meant—“Oh, but ain’t you glad _now_ we’rehere!”
Joe’s knife struck upon something.
“Hello!” said he.
“What is it?” said his comrade.
“Half-rotten plank—no, it’s a box, I believe. Here—bear a hand and we’llsee what it’s here for. Never mind, I’ve broke a hole.”
He reached his hand in and drew it out—
“Man, it’s money!”
The two men examined the handful of coins. They were gold. The boysabove were as excited as themselves, and as delighted.
Joe’s comrade said:
“We’ll make quick work of this. There’s an old rusty pick over amongstthe weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace—I saw it aminute ago.”
He ran and brought the boys’ pick and shovel. Injun Joe took thepick, looked it over critically, shook his head, muttered something tohimself, and then began to use it. The box was soon unearthed. It wasnot very large; it was iron bound and had been very strong before theslow years had injured it. The men contemplated the treasure awhile inblissful silence.
“Pard, there’s thousands of dollars here,” said Injun Joe.
“’Twas always said that Murrel’s gang used to be around here onesummer,” the stranger observed.
“I know it,” said Injun Joe; “and this looks like it, I should say.”
“Now you won’t need to do that job.”
The halfbreed frowned. Said he:
“You don’t know me. Least you don’t know all about that thing. ’Tain’trobbery altogether—it’s _revenge_!” and a wicked light flamed in hiseyes. “I’ll need your help in it. When it’s finished—then Texas. Go hometo your Nance and your kids, and stand by till you hear from me.”
“Well—if you say so; what’ll we do with this—bury it again?”
“Yes. [Ravishing delight overhead.] _No_! by the great Sachem, no![Profound distress overhead.] I’d nearly forgot. That pick had freshearth on it! [The boys were sick with terror in a moment.] What businesshas a pick and a shovel here? What business with fresh earth onthem? Who brought them here—and where are they gone? Have you heardanybody?—seen anybody? What! bury it again and leave them to come andsee the ground disturbed? Not exactly—not exactly. We’ll take it to myden.”
“Why, of course! Might have thought of that before. You mean NumberOne?”
“No—Number Two—under the cross. The other place is bad—too common.”
“All right. It’s nearly dark enough to start.”
Injun Joe got up and went about from window to window cautiously peepingout. Presently he said:
“Who could have brought those tools here? Do you reckon they can beupstairs?”
The boys’ breath forsook them. Injun Joe put his hand on his knife,halted a moment, undecided, and then turned toward the stairway. Theboys thought of the closet, but their strength was gone. The steps camecreaking up the stairs—the intolerable distress of the situation wokethe stricken resolution of the lads—they were about to spring for thecloset, when there was a crash of rotten timbers and Injun Joe landed onthe ground amid the debris of the ruined stairway. He gathered himselfup cursing, and his comrade said:
“Now what’s the use of all that? If it’s anybody, and they’re up there,let them _stay_ there—who cares? If they want to jump down, now, and getinto trouble, who objects? It will be dark in fifteen minutes—and thenlet them follow us if they want to. I’m willing. In my opinion, whoeverhove those things in here caught a sight of us and took us for ghosts ordevils or something. I’ll bet they’re running yet.”
Joe grumbled awhile; then he agreed with his friend that what daylightwas left ought to be economized in getting things ready for leaving.Shortly afterward they slipped out of the house in the deepeningtwilight, and moved toward the river with their precious box.
Tom and Huck rose up, weak but vastly relieved, and stared after themthrough the chinks between the logs of the house. Follow? Not they. Theywere content to reach ground again without broken necks, and take thetownward track over the hill. They did not talk much. They were too muchabsorbed in hating themselves—hating the ill luck that made them takethe spade and the pick there. But for that, Injun Joe never would havesuspected. He would have hidden the silver with the gold to waitthere till his “revenge” was satisfied, and then he would have had themisfortune to find that money turn up missing. Bitter, bitter luck thatthe tools were ever brought there!
They resolved to keep a lookout for that Spaniard when he should come totown spying out for chances to do his revengeful job, and follow him to“Number Two,” wherever that might be. Then a ghastly thought occurred toTom.
“Revenge? What if he means _us_, Huck!”
“Oh, don’t!” said Huck, nearly fainting.
They talked it all over, and as they entered town they agreed to believethat he might possibly mean somebody else—at least that he might atleast mean nobody but Tom, since only Tom had testified.
Very, very small comfort it was to Tom to be alone in danger! Companywould be a palpable improvement, he thought.



CHAPTER XXVII

THE adventure of the day mightily tormented Tom’s dreams that night.Four times he had his hands on that rich treasure and four timesit wasted to nothingness in his fingers as sleep forsook him andwakefulness brought back the hard reality of his misfortune. As he layin the early morning recalling the incidents of his great adventure, henoticed that they seemed curiously subdued and far away—somewhat as ifthey had happened in another world, or in a time long gone by. Then itoccurred to him that the great adventure itself must be a dream! Therewas one very strong argument in favor of this idea—namely, that thequantity of coin he had seen was too vast to be real. He had never seenas much as fifty dollars in one mass before, and he was like all boys ofhis age and station in life, in that he imagined that all references to“hundreds” and “thousands” were mere fanciful forms of speech, and thatno such sums really existed in the world. He never had supposed fora moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found inactual money in any one’s possession. If his notions of hidden treasurehad been analyzed, they would have been found to consist of a handful ofreal dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid, ungraspable dollars.
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearerunder the attrition of thinking them over, and so he presently foundhimself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been adream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch ahurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwaleof a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and lookingvery melancholy. Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. Ifhe did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only adream.
“Hello, Huck!”
“Hello, yourself.”
Silence, for a minute.
“Tom, if we’d ’a’ left the blame tools at the dead tree, we’d ’a’ gotthe money. Oh, ain’t it awful!”
“’Tain’t a dream, then, ’tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it was.Dog’d if I don’t, Huck.”
“What ain’t a dream?”
“Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it was.”
“Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down you’d ’a’ seen how much dreamit was! I’ve had dreams enough all night—with that patch-eyed Spanishdevil going for me all through ’em—rot him!”
“No, not rot him. _Find_ him! Track the money!”
“Tom, we’ll never find him. A feller don’t have only one chance for sucha pile—and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I was to see him,anyway.”
“Well, so’d I; but I’d like to see him, anyway—and track him out—to hisNumber Two.”
“Number Two—yes, that’s it. I been thinking ’bout that. But I can’t makenothing out of it. What do you reckon it is?”
“I dono. It’s too deep. Say, Huck—maybe it’s the number of a house!”
“Goody!... No, Tom, that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horsetown. They ain’t no numbers here.”
“Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here—it’s the number of aroom—in a tavern, you know!”
“Oh, that’s the trick! They ain’t only two taverns. We can find outquick.”
“You stay here, Huck, till I come.”
Tom was off at once. He did not care to have Huck’s company in publicplaces. He was gone half an hour. He found that in the best tavern, No.2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied.In the less ostentatious house, No. 2 was a mystery. The tavern-keeper’syoung son said it was kept locked all the time, and he never saw anybodygo into it or come out of it except at night; he did not know anyparticular reason for this state of things; had had some littlecuriosity, but it was rather feeble; had made the most of the mysteryby entertaining himself with the idea that that room was “ha’nted”; hadnoticed that there was a light in there the night before.
“That’s what I’ve found out, Huck. I reckon that’s the very No. 2 we’reafter.”
“I reckon it is, Tom. Now what you going to do?”
“Lemme think.”
Tom thought a long time. Then he said:
“I’ll tell you. The back door of that No. 2 is the door that comes outinto that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trapof a brick store. Now you get hold of all the doorkeys you can find, andI’ll nip all of auntie’s, and the first dark night we’ll go there andtry ’em. And mind you, keep a lookout for Injun Joe, because he said hewas going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to gethis revenge. If you see him, you just follow him; and if he don’t go tothat No. 2, that ain’t the place.”
“Lordy, I don’t want to foller him by myself!”
“Why, it’ll be night, sure. He mightn’t ever see you—and if he did,maybe he’d never think anything.”
“Well, if it’s pretty dark I reckon I’ll track him. I dono—I dono. I’lltry.”
“You bet I’ll follow him, if it’s dark, Huck. Why, he might ’a’ foundout he couldn’t get his revenge, and be going right after that money.”
“It’s so, Tom, it’s so. I’ll foller him; I will, by jingoes!”
“Now you’re _talking_! Don’t you ever weaken, Huck, and I won’t.”



CHAPTER XXVIII

THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure. They hung aboutthe neighborhood of the tavern until after nine, one watching the alleyat a distance and the other the tavern door. Nobody entered the alley orleft it; nobody resembling the Spaniard entered or left the taverndoor. The night promised to be a fair one; so Tom went home with theunderstanding that if a considerable degree of darkness came on, Huckwas to come and “maow,” whereupon he would slip out and try the keys.But the night remained clear, and Huck closed his watch and retired tobed in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve.
Tuesday the boys had the same ill luck. Also Wednesday. But Thursdaynight promised better. Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt’sold tin lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with. He hid thelantern in Huck’s sugar hogshead and the watch began. An hour beforemidnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones thereabouts)were put out. No Spaniard had been seen. Nobody had entered or left thealley. Everything was auspicious. The blackness of darkness reigned,the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional mutterings ofdistant thunder.
Tom got his lantern, lit it in the hogshead, wrapped it closely in thetowel, and the two adventurers crept in the gloom toward the tavern.Huck stood sentry and Tom felt his way into the alley. Then there wasa season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck’s spirits like amountain. He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern—itwould frighten him, but it would at least tell him that Tom was aliveyet. It seemed hours since Tom had disappeared. Surely he must havefainted; maybe he was dead; maybe his heart had burst under terror andexcitement. In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closerand closer to the alley; fearing all sorts of dreadful things, andmomentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take awayhis breath. There was not much to take away, for he seemed only able toinhale it by thimblefuls, and his heart would soon wear itself out, theway it was beating. Suddenly there was a flash of light and Tom cametearing by him: “Run!” said he; “run, for your life!”
He needn’t have repeated it; once was enough; Huck was making thirty orforty miles an hour before the repetition was uttered. The boys neverstopped till they reached the shed of a deserted slaughter-house at thelower end of the village. Just as they got within its shelter the stormburst and the rain poured down. As soon as Tom got his breath he said:
“Huck, it was awful! I tried two of the keys, just as soft as I could;but they seemed to make such a power of racket that I couldn’t hardlyget my breath I was so scared. They wouldn’t turn in the lock, either.Well, without noticing what I was doing, I took hold of the knob, andopen comes the door! It warn’t locked! I hopped in, and shook off thetowel, and, _Great Caesar’s Ghost!_”
“What!—what’d you see, Tom?”
“Huck, I most stepped onto Injun Joe’s hand!”
“No!”
“Yes! He was lying there, sound asleep on the floor, with his old patchon his eye and his arms spread out.”
“Lordy, what did you do? Did he wake up?”
“No, never budged. Drunk, I reckon. I just grabbed that towel andstarted!”
“I’d never ’a’ thought of the towel, I bet!”
“Well, I would. My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it.”
“Say, Tom, did you see that box?”
“Huck, I didn’t wait to look around. I didn’t see the box, I didn’t seethe cross. I didn’t see anything but a bottle and a tin cup on the floorby Injun Joe; yes, I saw two barrels and lots more bottles in the room.Don’t you see, now, what’s the matter with that ha’nted room?”
“How?”
“Why, it’s ha’nted with whiskey! Maybe _all_ the Temperance Taverns havegot a ha’nted room, hey, Huck?”
“Well, I reckon maybe that’s so. Who’d ’a’ thought such a thing? Butsay, Tom, now’s a mighty good time to get that box, if Injun Joe’sdrunk.”
“It is, that! You try it!”
Huck shuddered.
“Well, no—I reckon not.”
“And I reckon not, Huck. Only one bottle alongside of Injun Joe ain’tenough. If there’d been three, he’d be drunk enough and I’d do it.”
There was a long pause for reflection, and then Tom said:
“Lookyhere, Huck, less not try that thing any more till we know InjunJoe’s not in there. It’s too scary. Now, if we watch every night, we’llbe dead sure to see him go out, some time or other, and then we’llsnatch that box quicker’n lightning.”
“Well, I’m agreed. I’ll watch the whole night long, and I’ll do it everynight, too, if you’ll do the other part of the job.”
“All right, I will. All you got to do is to trot up Hooper Street ablock and maow—and if I’m asleep, you throw some gravel at the windowand that’ll fetch me.”
“Agreed, and good as wheat!”
“Now, Huck, the storm’s over, and I’ll go home. It’ll begin to bedaylight in a couple of hours. You go back and watch that long, willyou?”
“I said I would, Tom, and I will. I’ll ha’nt that tavern every night fora year! I’ll sleep all day and I’ll stand watch all night.”
“That’s all right. Now, where you going to sleep?”
“In Ben Rogers’ hayloft. He lets me, and so does his pap’s nigger man,Uncle Jake. I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and anytime I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it.That’s a mighty good nigger, Tom. He likes me, becuz I don’t ever act asif I was above him. Sometime I’ve set right down and eat _with_ him. Butyou needn’t tell that. A body’s got to do things when he’s awful hungryhe wouldn’t want to do as a steady thing.”
“Well, if I don’t want you in the daytime, I’ll let you sleep. I won’tcome bothering around. Any time you see something’s up, in the night,just skip right around and maow.”



CHAPTER XXIX

THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece ofnews—Judge Thatcher’s family had come back to town the night before.Both Injun Joe and the treasure sunk into secondary importance for amoment, and Becky took the chief place in the boy’s interest. He saw herand they had an exhausting good time playing “hispy” and “gully-keeper” with a crowd of their schoolmates. The day was completed and crowned ina peculiarly satisfactory way: Becky teased her mother to appointthe next day for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and sheconsented. The child’s delight was boundless; and Tom’s not moremoderate. The invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightwaythe young folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparationand pleasurable anticipation. Tom’s excitement enabled him to keepawake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck’s“maow,” and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the picnickerswith, next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came that night.
Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o’clock a giddy androllicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher’s, and everything wasready for a start. It was not the custom for elderly people to mar thepicnics with their presence. The children were considered safe enoughunder the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few younggentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts. The old steam ferry-boat waschartered for the occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the mainstreet laden with provision-baskets. Sid was sick and had to missthe fun; Mary remained at home to entertain him. The last thing Mrs.Thatcher said to Becky, was:
“You’ll not get back till late. Perhaps you’d better stay all night withsome of the girls that live near the ferry-landing, child.”
“Then I’ll stay with Susy Harper, mamma.”
“Very well. And mind and behave yourself and don’t be any trouble.”
Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky:
“Say—I’ll tell you what we’ll do. ’Stead of going to Joe Harper’s we’llclimb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas’. She’ll haveice-cream! She has it most every day—dead loads of it. And she’ll beawful glad to have us.”
“Oh, that will be fun!”
Then Becky reflected a moment and said:
“But what will mamma say?”
“How’ll she ever know?”
The girl turned the idea over in her mind, and said reluctantly:
“I reckon it’s wrong—but—”
“But shucks! Your mother won’t know, and so what’s the harm? All shewants is that you’ll be safe; and I bet you she’d ’a’ said go there ifshe’d ’a’ thought of it. I know she would!”
The Widow Douglas’ splendid hospitality was a tempting bait. It andTom’s persuasions presently carried the day. So it was decided to saynothing to anybody about the night’s programme. Presently it occurred toTom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal. Thethought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations. Still hecould not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas’. And why should hegive it up, he reasoned—the signal did not come the night before, sowhy should it be any more likely to come tonight? The sure fun of theevening outweighed the uncertain treasure; and, boy-like, he determinedto yield to the stronger inclination and not allow himself to think ofthe box of money another time that day.
Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the mouth of a woodyhollow and tied up. The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the forestdistances and craggy heights echoed far and near with shoutings andlaughter. All the different ways of getting hot and tired were gonethrough with, and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortifiedwith responsible appetites, and then the destruction of the good thingsbegan. After the feast there was a refreshing season of rest and chat inthe shade of spreading oaks. By-and-by somebody shouted:
“Who’s ready for the cave?”
Everybody was. Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway therewas a general scamper up the hill. The mouth of the cave was up thehillside—an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive oaken door stoodunbarred. Within was a small chamber, chilly as an icehouse, and walledby Nature with solid limestone that was dewy with a cold sweat. It wasromantic and mysterious to stand here in the deep gloom and look outupon the green valley shining in the sun. But the impressiveness of thesituation quickly wore off, and the romping began again. The momenta candle was lighted there was a general rush upon the owner of it; astruggle and a gallant defence followed, but the candle was soon knockeddown or blown out, and then there was a glad clamor of laughter and anew chase. But all things have an end. By-and-by the procession wentfiling down the steep descent of the main avenue, the flickering rank oflights dimly revealing the lofty walls of rock almost to their point ofjunction sixty feet overhead. This main avenue was not more thaneight or ten feet wide. Every few steps other lofty and still narrowercrevices branched from it on either hand—for McDougal’s cave was but avast labyrinth of crooked aisles that ran into each other and out againand led nowhere. It was said that one might wander days and nightstogether through its intricate tangle of rifts and chasms, and neverfind the end of the cave; and that he might go down, and down, andstill down, into the earth, and it was just the same—labyrinth underlabyrinth, and no end to any of them. No man “knew” the cave. That wasan impossible thing. Most of the young men knew a portion of it, and itwas not customary to venture much beyond this known portion. Tom Sawyerknew as much of the cave as any one.
The procession moved along the main avenue some three-quarters ofa mile, and then groups and couples began to slip aside into branchavenues, fly along the dismal corridors, and take each other by surpriseat points where the corridors joined again. Parties were able to eludeeach other for the space of half an hour without going beyond the“known” ground.
By-and-by, one group after another came straggling back to the mouthof the cave, panting, hilarious, smeared from head to foot with tallowdrippings, daubed with clay, and entirely delighted with the success ofthe day. Then they were astonished to find that they had been takingno note of time and that night was about at hand. The clanging bell hadbeen calling for half an hour. However, this sort of close to the day’sadventures was romantic and therefore satisfactory. When the ferryboatwith her wild freight pushed into the stream, nobody cared sixpence forthe wasted time but the captain of the craft.
Huck was already upon his watch when the ferryboat’s lights wentglinting past the wharf. He heard no noise on board, for the youngpeople were as subdued and still as people usually are who are nearlytired to death. He wondered what boat it was, and why she did notstop at the wharf—and then he dropped her out of his mind and put hisattention upon his business. The night was growing cloudy and dark. Teno’clock came, and the noise of vehicles ceased, scattered lights beganto wink out, all straggling foot-passengers disappeared, the villagebetook itself to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with thesilence and the ghosts. Eleven o’clock came, and the tavern lights wereput out; darkness everywhere, now. Huck waited what seemed a weary longtime, but nothing happened. His faith was weakening. Was there any use?Was there really any use? Why not give it up and turn in?
A noise fell upon his ear. He was all attention in an instant. The alleydoor closed softly. He sprang to the corner of the brick store. The nextmoment two men brushed by him, and one seemed to have something underhis arm. It must be that box! So they were going to remove the treasure.Why call Tom now? It would be absurd—the men would get away with the boxand never be found again. No, he would stick to their wake and followthem; he would trust to the darkness for security from discovery. Socommuning with himself, Huck stepped out and glided along behind themen, cat-like, with bare feet, allowing them to keep just far enoughahead not to be invisible.
They moved up the river street three blocks, then turned to the left upa crossstreet. They went straight ahead, then, until they came to thepath that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They passed by the oldWelshman’s house, halfway up the hill, without hesitating, and stillclimbed upward. Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in the old quarry.But they never stopped at the quarry. They passed on, up the summit.They plunged into the narrow path between the tall sumach bushes, andwere at once hidden in the gloom. Huck closed up and shortened hisdistance, now, for they would never be able to see him. He trotted alongawhile; then slackened his pace, fearing he was gaining too fast; movedon a piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save thathe seemed to hear the beating of his own heart. The hooting of anowl came over the hill—ominous sound! But no footsteps. Heavens, waseverything lost! He was about to spring with winged feet, when a mancleared his throat not four feet from him! Huck’s heart shot into histhroat, but he swallowed it again; and then he stood there shaking asif a dozen agues had taken charge of him at once, and so weak that hethought he must surely fall to the ground. He knew where he was. Heknew he was within five steps of the stile leading into Widow Douglas’grounds. Very well, he thought, let them bury it there; it won’t be hardto find.
Now there was a voice—a very low voice—Injun Joe’s:
“Damn her, maybe she’s got company—there’s lights, late as it is.”
“I can’t see any.”
This was that stranger’s voice—the stranger of the haunted house. Adeadly chill went to Huck’s heart—this, then, was the “revenge” job! Histhought was, to fly. Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had beenkind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to murderher. He wished he dared venture to warn her; but he knew he didn’tdare—they might come and catch him. He thought all this and more inthe moment that elapsed between the stranger’s remark and Injun Joe’snext—which was—
“Because the bush is in your way. Now—this way—now you see, don’t you?”
“Yes. Well, there _is_ company there, I reckon. Better give it up.”
“Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up andmaybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I’ve told youbefore, I don’t care for her swag—you may have it. But her husband wasrough on me—many times he was rough on me—and mainly he was the justiceof the peace that jugged me for a vagrant. And that ain’t all. It ain’ta millionth part of it! He had me _horsewhipped_!—horsewhipped infront of the jail, like a nigger!—with all the town looking on!_Horsewhipped_!—do you understand? He took advantage of me and died. ButI’ll take it out of _her_.”
“Oh, don’t kill her! Don’t do that!”
“Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill _him_ if he washere; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you don’tkill her—bosh! you go for her looks. You slit her nostrils—you notch herears like a sow!”
“By God, that’s—”
“Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest for you. I’ll tie herto the bed. If she bleeds to death, is that my fault? I’ll not cry, ifshe does. My friend, you’ll help me in this thing—for _my_ sake—that’swhy you’re here—I mightn’t be able alone. If you flinch, I’ll kill you.Do you understand that? And if I have to kill you, I’ll kill her—andthen I reckon nobody’ll ever know much about who done this business.”
“Well, if it’s got to be done, let’s get at it. The quicker thebetter—I’m all in a shiver.”
“Do it _now_? And company there? Look here—I’ll get suspicious of you,first thing you know. No—we’ll wait till the lights are out—there’s nohurry.”
Huck felt that a silence was going to ensue—a thing still more awfulthan any amount of murderous talk; so he held his breath and steppedgingerly back; planted his foot carefully and firmly, after balancing,one-legged, in a precarious way and almost toppling over, first on oneside and then on the other. He took another step back, with the sameelaboration and the same risks; then another and another, and—a twigsnapped under his foot! His breath stopped and he listened. There was nosound—the stillness was perfect. His gratitude was measureless. Now heturned in his tracks, between the walls of sumach bushes—turnedhimself as carefully as if he were a ship—and then stepped quickly butcautiously along. When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, andso he picked up his nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till hereached the Welshman’s. He banged at the door, and presently the headsof the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from windows.
“What’s the row there? Who’s banging? What do you want?”
“Let me in—quick! I’ll tell everything.”
“Why, who are you?”
“Huckleberry Finn—quick, let me in!”
“Huckleberry Finn, indeed! It ain’t a name to open many doors, I judge!But let him in, lads, and let’s see what’s the trouble.”
“Please don’t ever tell I told you,” were Huck’s first words when he gotin. “Please don’t—I’d be killed, sure—but the widow’s been good friendsto me sometimes, and I want to tell—I _will_ tell if you’ll promise youwon’t ever say it was me.”
“By George, he _has_ got something to tell, or he wouldn’t act so!” exclaimed the old man; “out with it and nobody here’ll ever tell, lad.”
Three minutes later the old man and his sons, well armed, were up thehill, and just entering the sumach path on tiptoe, their weapons intheir hands. Huck accompanied them no further. He hid behind a greatbowlder and fell to listening. There was a lagging, anxious silence, andthen all of a sudden there was an explosion of firearms and a cry.
Huck waited for no particulars. He sprang away and sped down the hill asfast as his legs could carry him.



CHAPTER XXX

AS the earliest suspicion of dawn appeared on Sunday morning, Huck camegroping up the hill and rapped gently at the old Welshman’s door. Theinmates were asleep, but it was a sleep that was set on a hair-trigger,on account of the exciting episode of the night. A call came from awindow:
“Who’s there!”
Huck’s scared voice answered in a low tone:
“Please let me in! It’s only Huck Finn!”
“It’s a name that can open this door night or day, lad!—and welcome!”
These were strange words to the vagabond boy’s ears, and the pleasantesthe had ever heard. He could not recollect that the closing word had everbeen applied in his case before. The door was quickly unlocked, and heentered. Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tallsons speedily dressed themselves.
“Now, my boy, I hope you’re good and hungry, because breakfast will beready as soon as the sun’s up, and we’ll have a piping hot one, too—makeyourself easy about that! I and the boys hoped you’d turn up and stophere last night.”
“I was awful scared,” said Huck, “and I run. I took out when the pistolswent off, and I didn’t stop for three mile. I’ve come now becuz I wantedto know about it, you know; and I come before daylight becuz I didn’twant to run across them devils, even if they was dead.”
“Well, poor chap, you do look as if you’d had a hard night of it—butthere’s a bed here for you when you’ve had your breakfast. No, theyain’t dead, lad—we are sorry enough for that. You see we knew rightwhere to put our hands on them, by your description; so we crept alongon tiptoe till we got within fifteen feet of them—dark as a cellar thatsumach path was—and just then I found I was going to sneeze. It was themeanest kind of luck! I tried to keep it back, but no use—’twas bound tocome, and it did come! I was in the lead with my pistol raised, and whenthe sneeze started those scoundrels a-rustling to get out of the path,I sung out, ‘Fire boys!’ and blazed away at the place where the rustlingwas. So did the boys. But they were off in a jiffy, those villains, andwe after them, down through the woods. I judge we never touched them.They fired a shot apiece as they started, but their bullets whizzed byand didn’t do us any harm. As soon as we lost the sound of their feetwe quit chasing, and went down and stirred up the constables. They got aposse together, and went off to guard the river bank, and as soon as itis light the sheriff and a gang are going to beat up the woods. My boyswill be with them presently. I wish we had some sort of description ofthose rascals—’twould help a good deal. But you couldn’t see what theywere like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?”
“Oh yes; I saw them downtown and follered them.”
“Splendid! Describe them—describe them, my boy!”
“One’s the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s ben around here once ortwice, and t’other’s a mean-looking, ragged—”
“That’s enough, lad, we know the men! Happened on them in the woods backof the widow’s one day, and they slunk away. Off with you, boys, andtell the sheriff—get your breakfast tomorrow morning!”
The Welshman’s sons departed at once. As they were leaving the room Hucksprang up and exclaimed:
“Oh, please don’t tell _any_body it was me that blowed on them! Oh,please!”
“All right if you say it, Huck, but you ought to have the credit of whatyou did.”
“Oh no, no! Please don’t tell!”
When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said:
“They won’t tell—and I won’t. But why don’t you want it known?”
Huck would not explain, further than to say that he already knew toomuch about one of those men and would not have the man know that he knewanything against him for the whole world—he would be killed for knowingit, sure.
The old man promised secrecy once more, and said:
“How did you come to follow these fellows, lad? Were they lookingsuspicious?”
Huck was silent while he framed a duly cautious reply. Then he said:
“Well, you see, I’m a kind of a hard lot,—least everybody says so, andI don’t see nothing agin it—and sometimes I can’t sleep much, on accountof thinking about it and sort of trying to strike out a new way ofdoing. That was the way of it last night. I couldn’t sleep, and so Icome along upstreet ’bout midnight, a-turning it all over, and when Igot to that old shackly brick store by the Temperance Tavern, I backedup agin the wall to have another think. Well, just then along comesthese two chaps slipping along close by me, with something under theirarm, and I reckoned they’d stole it. One was a-smoking, and t’other onewanted a light; so they stopped right before me and the cigars lit uptheir faces and I see that the big one was the deaf and dumb Spaniard,by his white whiskers and the patch on his eye, and t’other one was arusty, ragged-looking devil.”
“Could you see the rags by the light of the cigars?”
This staggered Huck for a moment. Then he said:
“Well, I don’t know—but somehow it seems as if I did.”
“Then they went on, and you—”
“Follered ’em—yes. That was it. I wanted to see what was up—they sneakedalong so. I dogged ’em to the widder’s stile, and stood in the dark andheard the ragged one beg for the widder, and the Spaniard swear he’dspile her looks just as I told you and your two—”
“What! The _deaf and dumb_ man said all that!”
Huck had made another terrible mistake! He was trying his best to keepthe old man from getting the faintest hint of who the Spaniard might be,and yet his tongue seemed determined to get him into trouble in spite ofall he could do. He made several efforts to creep out of his scrape,but the old man’s eye was upon him and he made blunder after blunder.Presently the Welshman said:
“My boy, don’t be afraid of me. I wouldn’t hurt a hair of your head forall the world. No—I’d protect you—I’d protect you. This Spaniard isnot deaf and dumb; you’ve let that slip without intending it; you can’tcover that up now. You know something about that Spaniard that you wantto keep dark. Now trust me—tell me what it is, and trust me—I won’tbetray you.”
Huck looked into the old man’s honest eyes a moment, then bent over andwhispered in his ear:
“’Tain’t a Spaniard—it’s Injun Joe!”
The Welshman almost jumped out of his chair. In a moment he said:
“It’s all plain enough, now. When you talked about notching ears andslitting noses I judged that that was your own embellishment, becausewhite men don’t take that sort of revenge. But an Injun! That’s adifferent matter altogether.”
During breakfast the talk went on, and in the course of it the old mansaid that the last thing which he and his sons had done, before goingto bed, was to get a lantern and examine the stile and its vicinity formarks of blood. They found none, but captured a bulky bundle of—
“Of _what_?”
If the words had been lightning they could not have leaped with a morestunning suddenness from Huck’s blanched lips. His eyes were staringwide, now, and his breath suspended—waiting for the answer. The Welshmanstarted—stared in return—three seconds—five seconds—ten—then replied:
“Of burglar’s tools. Why, what’s the _matter_ with you?”
Huck sank back, panting gently, but deeply, unutterably grateful. TheWelshman eyed him gravely, curiously—and presently said:
“Yes, burglar’s tools. That appears to relieve you a good deal. But whatdid give you that turn? What were _you_ expecting we’d found?”
Huck was in a close place—the inquiring eye was upon him—he would havegiven anything for material for a plausible answer—nothing suggesteditself—the inquiring eye was boring deeper and deeper—a senselessreply offered—there was no time to weigh it, so at a venture he utteredit—feebly:
“Sunday-school books, maybe.”
Poor Huck was too distressed to smile, but the old man laughed loud andjoyously, shook up the details of his anatomy from head to foot, andended by saying that such a laugh was money in a-man’s pocket, becauseit cut down the doctor’s bill like everything. Then he added:
“Poor old chap, you’re white and jaded—you ain’t well a bit—no wonderyou’re a little flighty and off your balance. But you’ll come out of it.Rest and sleep will fetch you out all right, I hope.”
Huck was irritated to think he had been such a goose and betrayed sucha suspicious excitement, for he had dropped the idea that the parcelbrought from the tavern was the treasure, as soon as he had heard thetalk at the widow’s stile. He had only thought it was not the treasure,however—he had not known that it wasn’t—and so the suggestion of acaptured bundle was too much for his self-possession. But on the wholehe felt glad the little episode had happened, for now he knew beyond allquestion that that bundle was not _the_ bundle, and so his mind wasat rest and exceedingly comfortable. In fact, everything seemed to bedrifting just in the right direction, now; the treasure must be stillin No. 2, the men would be captured and jailed that day, and he andTom could seize the gold that night without any trouble or any fear ofinterruption.
Just as breakfast was completed there was a knock at the door. Huckjumped for a hiding-place, for he had no mind to be connected evenremotely with the late event. The Welshman admitted several ladies andgentlemen, among them the Widow Douglas, and noticed that groups ofcitizens were climbing up the hill—to stare at the stile. So the newshad spread. The Welshman had to tell the story of the night to thevisitors. The widow’s gratitude for her preservation was outspoken.
“Don’t say a word about it, madam. There’s another that you’re morebeholden to than you are to me and my boys, maybe, but he don’t allow meto tell his name. We wouldn’t have been there but for him.”
Of course this excited a curiosity so vast that it almost belittled themain matter—but the Welshman allowed it to eat into the vitals of hisvisitors, and through them be transmitted to the whole town, for herefused to part with his secret. When all else had been learned, thewidow said:
“I went to sleep reading in bed and slept straight through all thatnoise. Why didn’t you come and wake me?”
“We judged it warn’t worth while. Those fellows warn’t likely to comeagain—they hadn’t any tools left to work with, and what was the use ofwaking you up and scaring you to death? My three negro men stood guardat your house all the rest of the night. They’ve just come back.”
More visitors came, and the story had to be told and retold for a coupleof hours more.
There was no Sabbath-school during day-school vacation, but everybodywas early at church. The stirring event was well canvassed. News camethat not a sign of the two villains had been yet discovered. When thesermon was finished, Judge Thatcher’s wife dropped alongside of Mrs.Harper as she moved down the aisle with the crowd and said:
“Is my Becky going to sleep all day? I just expected she would be tiredto death.”
“Your Becky?”
“Yes,” with a startled look—“didn’t she stay with you last night?”
“Why, no.”
Mrs. Thatcher turned pale, and sank into a pew, just as Aunt Polly,talking briskly with a friend, passed by. Aunt Polly said:
“Goodmorning, Mrs. Thatcher. Goodmorning, Mrs. Harper. I’ve got a boythat’s turned up missing. I reckon my Tom stayed at your house lastnight—one of you. And now he’s afraid to come to church. I’ve got tosettle with him.”
Mrs. Thatcher shook her head feebly and turned paler than ever.
“He didn’t stay with us,” said Mrs. Harper, beginning to look uneasy. Amarked anxiety came into Aunt Polly’s face.
“Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?”
“No’m.”
“When did you see him last?”
Joe tried to remember, but was not sure he could say. The people hadstopped moving out of church. Whispers passed along, and a bodinguneasiness took possession of every countenance. Children were anxiouslyquestioned, and young teachers. They all said they had not noticedwhether Tom and Becky were on board the ferryboat on the homeward trip;it was dark; no one thought of inquiring if any one was missing. Oneyoung man finally blurted out his fear that they were still in the cave!Mrs. Thatcher swooned away. Aunt Polly fell to crying and wringing herhands.
The alarm swept from lip to lip, from group to group, from street tostreet, and within five minutes the bells were wildly clanging andthe whole town was up! The Cardiff Hill episode sank into instantinsignificance, the burglars were forgotten, horses were saddled, skiffswere manned, the ferryboat ordered out, and before the horror was halfan hour old, two hundred men were pouring down highroad and river towardthe cave.
All the long afternoon the village seemed empty and dead. Many womenvisited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort them. Theycried with them, too, and that was still better than words. All thetedious night the town waited for news; but when the morning dawned atlast, all the word that came was, “Send more candles—and send food.” Mrs. Thatcher was almost crazed; and Aunt Polly, also. Judge Thatchersent messages of hope and encouragement from the cave, but they conveyedno real cheer.
The old Welshman came home toward daylight, spattered withcandle-grease, smeared with clay, and almost worn out. He found Huckstill in the bed that had been provided for him, and delirious withfever. The physicians were all at the cave, so the Widow Douglas cameand took charge of the patient. She said she would do her best by him,because, whether he was good, bad, or indifferent, he was the Lord’s,and nothing that was the Lord’s was a thing to be neglected. TheWelshman said Huck had good spots in him, and the widow said:
“You can depend on it. That’s the Lord’s mark. He don’t leave it off.He never does. Puts it somewhere on every creature that comes from hishands.”
Early in the forenoon parties of jaded men began to straggle into thevillage, but the strongest of the citizens continued searching. All thenews that could be gained was that remotenesses of the cavern were beingransacked that had never been visited before; that every corner andcrevice was going to be thoroughly searched; that wherever one wanderedthrough the maze of passages, lights were to be seen flitting hitherand thither in the distance, and shoutings and pistol-shots sent theirhollow reverberations to the ear down the sombre aisles. In one place,far from the section usually traversed by tourists, the names “BECKY &TOM” had been found traced upon the rocky wall with candle-smoke, andnear at hand a grease-soiled bit of ribbon. Mrs. Thatcher recognized theribbon and cried over it. She said it was the last relic she should everhave of her child; and that no other memorial of her could ever be soprecious, because this one parted latest from the living body before theawful death came. Some said that now and then, in the cave, a far-awayspeck of light would glimmer, and then a glorious shout would burstforth and a score of men go trooping down the echoing aisle—and then asickening disappointment always followed; the children were not there;it was only a searcher’s light.
Three dreadful days and nights dragged their tedious hours along, andthe village sank into a hopeless stupor. No one had heart for anything.The accidental discovery, just made, that the proprietor of theTemperance Tavern kept liquor on his premises, scarcely fluttered thepublic pulse, tremendous as the fact was. In a lucid interval, Huckfeebly led up to the subject of taverns, and finally asked—dimlydreading the worst—if anything had been discovered at the TemperanceTavern since he had been ill.
“Yes,” said the widow.
Huck started up in bed, wildeyed:
“What? What was it?”
“Liquor!—and the place has been shut up. Lie down, child—what a turn youdid give me!”
“Only tell me just one thing—only just one—please! Was it Tom Sawyerthat found it?”
The widow burst into tears. “Hush, hush, child, hush! I’ve told youbefore, you must _not_ talk. You are very, very sick!”
Then nothing but liquor had been found; there would have been a greatpowwow if it had been the gold. So the treasure was gone forever—goneforever! But what could she be crying about? Curious that she shouldcry.
These thoughts worked their dim way through Huck’s mind, and under theweariness they gave him he fell asleep. The widow said to herself:
“There—he’s asleep, poor wreck. Tom Sawyer find it! Pity but somebodycould find Tom Sawyer! Ah, there ain’t many left, now, that’s got hopeenough, or strength enough, either, to go on searching.”



CHAPTER XXXI

NOW to return to Tom and Becky’s share in the picnic. They tripped alongthe murky aisles with the rest of the company, visiting the familiarwonders of the cave—wonders dubbed with rather over-descriptive names,such as “The Drawing-Room,” “The Cathedral,” “Aladdin’s Palace,” andso on. Presently the hide-and-seek frolicking began, and Tom and Beckyengaged in it with zeal until the exertion began to grow a triflewearisome; then they wandered down a sinuous avenue holding theircandles aloft and reading the tangled webwork of names, dates,postoffice addresses, and mottoes with which the rocky walls had beenfrescoed (in candle-smoke). Still drifting along and talking, theyscarcely noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose wallswere not frescoed. They smoked their own names under an overhangingshelf and moved on. Presently they came to a place where a little streamof water, trickling over a ledge and carrying a limestone sediment withit, had, in the slow-dragging ages, formed a laced and ruffled Niagarain gleaming and imperishable stone. Tom squeezed his small body behindit in order to illuminate it for Becky’s gratification. He found thatit curtained a sort of steep natural stairway which was enclosed betweennarrow walls, and at once the ambition to be a discoverer seized him.
Becky responded to his call, and they made a smoke-mark for futureguidance, and started upon their quest. They wound this way and that,far down into the secret depths of the cave, made another mark, andbranched off in search of novelties to tell the upper world about. Inone place they found a spacious cavern, from whose ceiling depended amultitude of shining stalactites of the length and circumference ofa man’s leg; they walked all about it, wondering and admiring, andpresently left it by one of the numerous passages that opened intoit. This shortly brought them to a bewitching spring, whose basin wasincrusted with a frostwork of glittering crystals; it was in the midstof a cavern whose walls were supported by many fantastic pillars whichhad been formed by the joining of great stalactites and stalagmitestogether, the result of the ceaseless water-drip of centuries. Under theroof vast knots of bats had packed themselves together, thousands in abunch; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down byhundreds, squeaking and darting furiously at the candles. Tom knew theirways and the danger of this sort of conduct. He seized Becky’s hand andhurried her into the first corridor that offered; and none too soon, fora bat struck Becky’s light out with its wing while she was passing outof the cavern. The bats chased the children a good distance; but thefugitives plunged into every new passage that offered, and at last gotrid of the perilous things. Tom found a subterranean lake, shortly,which stretched its dim length away until its shape was lost in theshadows. He wanted to explore its borders, but concluded that it wouldbe best to sit down and rest awhile, first. Now, for the first time, thedeep stillness of the place laid a clammy hand upon the spirits of thechildren. Becky said:
“Why, I didn’t notice, but it seems ever so long since I heard any ofthe others.”
“Come to think, Becky, we are away down below them—and I don’t know howfar away north, or south, or east, or whichever it is. We couldn’t hearthem here.”
Becky grew apprehensive.
“I wonder how long we’ve been down here, Tom? We better start back.”
“Yes, I reckon we better. P’raps we better.”
“Can you find the way, Tom? It’s all a mixed-up crookedness to me.”
“I reckon I could find it—but then the bats. If they put our candlesout it will be an awful fix. Let’s try some other way, so as not to gothrough there.”
“Well. But I hope we won’t get lost. It would be so awful!” and the girlshuddered at the thought of the dreadful possibilities.
They started through a corridor, and traversed it in silence a longway, glancing at each new opening, to see if there was anything familiarabout the look of it; but they were all strange. Every time Tom made anexamination, Becky would watch his face for an encouraging sign, and hewould say cheerily:
“Oh, it’s all right. This ain’t the one, but we’ll come to it rightaway!”
But he felt less and less hopeful with each failure, and presently beganto turn off into diverging avenues at sheer random, in desperate hope offinding the one that was wanted. He still said it was “all right,” butthere was such a leaden dread at his heart that the words had lost theirring and sounded just as if he had said, “All is lost!” Becky clung tohis side in an anguish of fear, and tried hard to keep back the tears,but they would come. At last she said:
“Oh, Tom, never mind the bats, let’s go back that way! We seem to getworse and worse off all the time.”
“Listen!” said he.
Profound silence; silence so deep that even their breathings wereconspicuous in the hush. Tom shouted. The call went echoing downthe empty aisles and died out in the distance in a faint sound thatresembled a ripple of mocking laughter.
“Oh, don’t do it again, Tom, it is too horrid,” said Becky.
“It is horrid, but I better, Becky; they might hear us, you know,” andhe shouted again.
The “might” was even a chillier horror than the ghostly laughter, it soconfessed a perishing hope. The children stood still and listened; butthere was no result. Tom turned upon the back track at once, and hurriedhis steps. It was but a little while before a certain indecision in hismanner revealed another fearful fact to Becky—he could not find his wayback!
“Oh, Tom, you didn’t make any marks!”
“Becky, I was such a fool! Such a fool! I never thought we might want tocome back! No—I can’t find the way. It’s all mixed up.”
“Tom, Tom, we’re lost! we’re lost! We never can get out of this awfulplace! Oh, why _did_ we ever leave the others!”
She sank to the ground and burst into such a frenzy of crying that Tomwas appalled with the idea that she might die, or lose her reason. Hesat down by her and put his arms around her; she buried her face inhis bosom, she clung to him, she poured out her terrors, her unavailingregrets, and the far echoes turned them all to jeering laughter. Tombegged her to pluck up hope again, and she said she could not. He fellto blaming and abusing himself for getting her into this miserablesituation; this had a better effect. She said she would try to hopeagain, she would get up and follow wherever he might lead if only hewould not talk like that any more. For he was no more to blame than she,she said.
So they moved on again—aimlessly—simply at random—all they could dowas to move, keep moving. For a little while, hope made a show ofreviving—not with any reason to back it, but only because it is itsnature to revive when the spring has not been taken out of it by age andfamiliarity with failure.
By-and-by Tom took Becky’s candle and blew it out. This economy meant somuch! Words were not needed. Becky understood, and her hope died again.She knew that Tom had a whole candle and three or four pieces in hispockets—yet he must economize.
By-and-by, fatigue began to assert its claims; the children tried to payattention, for it was dreadful to think of sitting down when time wasgrown to be so precious, moving, in some direction, in any direction,was at least progress and might bear fruit; but to sit down was toinvite death and shorten its pursuit.
At last Becky’s frail limbs refused to carry her farther. She sat down.Tom rested with her, and they talked of home, and the friends there,and the comfortable beds and, above all, the light! Becky cried, and Tomtried to think of some way of comforting her, but all his encouragementswere grown thread-bare with use, and sounded like sarcasms. Fatigue boreso heavily upon Becky that she drowsed off to sleep. Tom was grateful.He sat looking into her drawn face and saw it grow smooth and naturalunder the influence of pleasant dreams; and by-and-by a smile dawned andrested there. The peaceful face reflected somewhat of peace and healinginto his own spirit, and his thoughts wandered away to bygone times anddreamy memories. While he was deep in his musings, Becky woke up with abreezy little laugh—but it was stricken dead upon her lips, and a groanfollowed it.
“Oh, how _could_ I sleep! I wish I never, never had waked! No! No, Idon’t, Tom! Don’t look so! I won’t say it again.”
“I’m glad you’ve slept, Becky; you’ll feel rested, now, and we’ll findthe way out.”
“We can try, Tom; but I’ve seen such a beautiful country in my dream. Ireckon we are going there.”
“Maybe not, maybe not. Cheer up, Becky, and let’s go on trying.”
They rose up and wandered along, hand in hand and hopeless. They triedto estimate how long they had been in the cave, but all they knew wasthat it seemed days and weeks, and yet it was plain that this could notbe, for their candles were not gone yet. A long time after this—theycould not tell how long—Tom said they must go softly and listen fordripping water—they must find a spring. They found one presently, andTom said it was time to rest again. Both were cruelly tired, yet Beckysaid she thought she could go a little farther. She was surprised tohear Tom dissent. She could not understand it. They sat down, and Tomfastened his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay. Thoughtwas soon busy; nothing was said for some time. Then Becky broke thesilence:
“Tom, I am so hungry!”
Tom took something out of his pocket.
“Do you remember this?” said he.
Becky almost smiled.
“It’s our wedding-cake, Tom.”
“Yes—I wish it was as big as a barrel, for it’s all we’ve got.”
“I saved it from the picnic for us to dream on, Tom, the way grownuppeople do with wedding-cake—but it’ll be our—”
She dropped the sentence where it was. Tom divided the cake and Beckyate with good appetite, while Tom nibbled at his moiety. There wasabundance of cold water to finish the feast with. By-and-by Beckysuggested that they move on again. Tom was silent a moment. Then hesaid:
“Becky, can you bear it if I tell you something?”
Becky’s face paled, but she thought she could.
“Well, then, Becky, we must stay here, where there’s water to drink.That little piece is our last candle!”
Becky gave loose to tears and wailings. Tom did what he could to comforther, but with little effect. At length Becky said:
“Tom!”
“Well, Becky?”
“They’ll miss us and hunt for us!”
“Yes, they will! Certainly they will!”
“Maybe they’re hunting for us now, Tom.”
“Why, I reckon maybe they are. I hope they are.”
“When would they miss us, Tom?”
“When they get back to the boat, I reckon.”
“Tom, it might be dark then—would they notice we hadn’t come?”
“I don’t know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as theygot home.”
A frightened look in Becky’s face brought Tom to his senses and he sawthat he had made a blunder. Becky was not to have gone home that night!The children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment a new burst ofgrief from Becky showed Tom that the thing in his mind had struck hersalso—that the Sabbath morning might be half spent before Mrs. Thatcherdiscovered that Becky was not at Mrs. Harper’s.
The children fastened their eyes upon their bit of candle and watched itmelt slowly and pitilessly away; saw the half inch of wick stand aloneat last; saw the feeble flame rise and fall, climb the thin column ofsmoke, linger at its top a moment, and then—the horror of utter darknessreigned!
How long afterward it was that Becky came to a slow consciousness thatshe was crying in Tom’s arms, neither could tell. All that they knewwas, that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out ofa dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more. Tom saidit might be Sunday, now—maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, buther sorrows were too oppressive, all her hopes were gone. Tom said thatthey must have been missed long ago, and no doubt the search was goingon. He would shout and maybe some one would come. He tried it; but inthe darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it nomore.
The hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment the captives again. Aportion of Tom’s half of the cake was left; they divided and ate it. Butthey seemed hungrier than before. The poor morsel of food only whetteddesire.
By-and-by Tom said:
“SH! Did you hear that?”
Both held their breath and listened. There was a sound like thefaintest, far-off shout. Instantly Tom answered it, and leading Becky bythe hand, started groping down the corridor in its direction. Presentlyhe listened again; again the sound was heard, and apparently a littlenearer.
“It’s them!” said Tom; “they’re coming! Come along, Becky—we’re allright now!”
The joy of the prisoners was almost overwhelming. Their speed was slow,however, because pitfalls were somewhat common, and had to be guardedagainst. They shortly came to one and had to stop. It might be threefeet deep, it might be a hundred—there was no passing it at any rate.Tom got down on his breast and reached as far down as he could. Nobottom. They must stay there and wait until the searchers came. Theylistened; evidently the distant shoutings were growing more distant!a moment or two more and they had gone altogether. The heart-sinkingmisery of it! Tom whooped until he was hoarse, but it was of no use. Hetalked hopefully to Becky; but an age of anxious waiting passed and nosounds came again.
The children groped their way back to the spring. The weary time draggedon; they slept again, and awoke famished and woe-stricken. Tom believedit must be Tuesday by this time.
Now an idea struck him. There were some side passages near at hand. Itwould be better to explore some of these than bear the weight of theheavy time in idleness. He took a kite-line from his pocket, tied it toa projection, and he and Becky started, Tom in the lead, unwinding theline as he groped along. At the end of twenty steps the corridor endedin a “jumping-off place.” Tom got down on his knees and felt below,and then as far around the corner as he could reach with his handsconveniently; he made an effort to stretch yet a little farther to theright, and at that moment, not twenty yards away, a human hand, holdinga candle, appeared from behind a rock! Tom lifted up a glorious shout,and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to—InjunJoe’s! Tom was paralyzed; he could not move. He was vastly gratified thenext moment, to see the “Spaniard” take to his heels and get himself outof sight. Tom wondered that Joe had not recognized his voice and comeover and killed him for testifying in court. But the echoes must havedisguised the voice. Without doubt, that was it, he reasoned. Tom’sfright weakened every muscle in his body. He said to himself that if hehad strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there, andnothing should tempt him to run the risk of meeting Injun Joe again. Hewas careful to keep from Becky what it was he had seen. He told her hehad only shouted “for luck.”
But hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in the long run.Another tedious wait at the spring and another long sleep broughtchanges. The children awoke tortured with a raging hunger. Tom believedthat it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday, now,and that the search had been given over. He proposed to explore anotherpassage. He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other terrors. ButBecky was very weak. She had sunk into a dreary apathy and would not beroused. She said she would wait, now, where she was, and die—it wouldnot be long. She told Tom to go with the kite-line and explore if hechose; but she implored him to come back every little while and speakto her; and she made him promise that when the awful time came, he wouldstay by her and hold her hand until all was over.
Tom kissed her, with a choking sensation in his throat, and made a showof being confident of finding the searchers or an escape from the cave;then he took the kite-line in his hand and went groping down one of thepassages on his hands and knees, distressed with hunger and sick withbodings of coming doom.



CHAPTER XXXII

TUESDAY afternoon came, and waned to the twilight. The village of St.Petersburg still mourned. The lost children had not been found. Publicprayers had been offered up for them, and many and many a private prayerthat had the petitioner’s whole heart in it; but still no good news camefrom the cave. The majority of the searchers had given up the questand gone back to their daily avocations, saying that it was plain thechildren could never be found. Mrs. Thatcher was very ill, and a greatpart of the time delirious. People said it was heartbreaking to hear hercall her child, and raise her head and listen a whole minute at a time,then lay it wearily down again with a moan. Aunt Polly had drooped intoa settled melancholy, and her gray hair had grown almost white. Thevillage went to its rest on Tuesday night, sad and forlorn.
Away in the middle of the night a wild peal burst from the villagebells, and in a moment the streets were swarming with frantic half-cladpeople, who shouted, “Turn out! turn out! they’re found! they’re found!” Tin pans and horns were added to the din, the population massed itselfand moved toward the river, met the children coming in an open carriagedrawn by shouting citizens, thronged around it, joined its homewardmarch, and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah afterhuzzah!
The village was illuminated; nobody went to bed again; it was thegreatest night the little town had ever seen. During the first half-houra procession of villagers filed through Judge Thatcher’s house, seizedthe saved ones and kissed them, squeezed Mrs. Thatcher’s hand, tried tospeak but couldn’t—and drifted out raining tears all over the place.
Aunt Polly’s happiness was complete, and Mrs. Thatcher’s nearly so. Itwould be complete, however, as soon as the messenger dispatched with thegreat news to the cave should get the word to her husband. Tom lay upona sofa with an eager auditory about him and told the history of thewonderful adventure, putting in many striking additions to adorn itwithal; and closed with a description of how he left Becky and wenton an exploring expedition; how he followed two avenues as far as hiskite-line would reach; how he followed a third to the fullest stretchof the kite-line, and was about to turn back when he glimpsed a far-offspeck that looked like daylight; dropped the line and groped toward it,pushed his head and shoulders through a small hole, and saw the broadMississippi rolling by!
And if it had only happened to be night he would not have seen thatspeck of daylight and would not have explored that passage any more! Hetold how he went back for Becky and broke the good news and she toldhim not to fret her with such stuff, for she was tired, and knew she wasgoing to die, and wanted to. He described how he labored with her andconvinced her; and how she almost died for joy when she had groped towhere she actually saw the blue speck of daylight; how he pushed his wayout at the hole and then helped her out; how they sat there and criedfor gladness; how some men came along in a skiff and Tom hailed themand told them their situation and their famished condition; how the mendidn’t believe the wild tale at first, “because,” said they, “you arefive miles down the river below the valley the cave is in”—then tookthem aboard, rowed to a house, gave them supper, made them rest till twoor three hours after dark and then brought them home.
Before day-dawn, Judge Thatcher and the handful of searchers with himwere tracked out, in the cave, by the twine clews they had strung behindthem, and informed of the great news.
Three days and nights of toil and hunger in the cave were not tobe shaken off at once, as Tom and Becky soon discovered. They werebedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more andmore tired and worn, all the time. Tom got about, a little, on Thursday,was downtown Friday, and nearly as whole as ever Saturday; but Beckydid not leave her room until Sunday, and then she looked as if she hadpassed through a wasting illness.
Tom learned of Huck’s sickness and went to see him on Friday, but couldnot be admitted to the bedroom; neither could he on Saturday or Sunday.He was admitted daily after that, but was warned to keep still about hisadventure and introduce no exciting topic. The Widow Douglas stayed byto see that he obeyed. At home Tom learned of the Cardiff Hill event;also that the “ragged man’s” body had eventually been found in the rivernear the ferry-landing; he had been drowned while trying to escape,perhaps.
About a fortnight after Tom’s rescue from the cave, he started off tovisit Huck, who had grown plenty strong enough, now, to hear excitingtalk, and Tom had some that would interest him, he thought. JudgeThatcher’s house was on Tom’s way, and he stopped to see Becky. TheJudge and some friends set Tom to talking, and some one asked himironically if he wouldn’t like to go to the cave again. Tom said hethought he wouldn’t mind it. The Judge said:
“Well, there are others just like you, Tom, I’ve not the least doubt.But we have taken care of that. Nobody will get lost in that cave anymore.”
“Why?”
“Because I had its big door sheathed with boiler iron two weeks ago, andtriple-locked—and I’ve got the keys.”
Tom turned as white as a sheet.
“What’s the matter, boy! Here, run, somebody! Fetch a glass of water!”
The water was brought and thrown into Tom’s face.
“Ah, now you’re all right. What was the matter with you, Tom?”
“Oh, Judge, Injun Joe’s in the cave!”



CHAPTER XXXIII

WITHIN a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen skiff-loads ofmen were on their way to McDougal’s cave, and the ferryboat, well filledwith passengers, soon followed. Tom Sawyer was in the skiff that boreJudge Thatcher.
When the cave door was unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself inthe dim twilight of the place. Injun Joe lay stretched upon the ground,dead, with his face close to the crack of the door, as if his longingeyes had been fixed, to the latest moment, upon the light and the cheerof the free world outside. Tom was touched, for he knew by his ownexperience how this wretch had suffered. His pity was moved, butnevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security, now,which revealed to him in a degree which he had not fully appreciatedbefore how vast a weight of dread had been lying upon him since the dayhe lifted his voice against this bloody-minded outcast.
Injun Joe’s bowie-knife lay close by, its blade broken in two. The greatfoundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through, withtedious labor; useless labor, too, it was, for the native rock formed asill outside it, and upon that stubborn material the knife had wroughtno effect; the only damage done was to the knife itself. But if therehad been no stony obstruction there the labor would have been uselessstill, for if the beam had been wholly cut away Injun Joe could not havesqueezed his body under the door, and he knew it. So he had only hackedthat place in order to be doing something—in order to pass the wearytime—in order to employ his tortured faculties. Ordinarily one couldfind half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of thisvestibule, left there by tourists; but there were none now. The prisonerhad searched them out and eaten them. He had also contrived to catch afew bats, and these, also, he had eaten, leaving only their claws. Thepoor unfortunate had starved to death. In one place, near at hand, astalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages, buildedby the water-drip from a stalactite overhead. The captive had broken offthe stalagmite, and upon the stump had placed a stone, wherein he hadscooped a shallow hollow to catch the precious drop that fell oncein every three minutes with the dreary regularity of a clock-tick—adessertspoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop was fallingwhen the Pyramids were new; when Troy fell; when the foundations of Romewere laid; when Christ was crucified; when the Conqueror created theBritish empire; when Columbus sailed; when the massacre at Lexington was“news.”
It is falling now; it will still be falling when all these things shallhave sunk down the afternoon of history, and the twilight of tradition,and been swallowed up in the thick night of oblivion. Has everything apurpose and a mission? Did this drop fall patiently during five thousandyears to be ready for this flitting human insect’s need? and has itanother important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come? Nomatter. It is many and many a year since the hapless half-breed scoopedout the stone to catch the priceless drops, but to this day the touriststares longest at that pathetic stone and that slow-dropping water whenhe comes to see the wonders of McDougal’s cave. Injun Joe’s cup standsfirst in the list of the cavern’s marvels; even “Aladdin’s Palace” cannot rival it.
Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave; and people flockedthere in boats and wagons from the towns and from all the farms andhamlets for seven miles around; they brought their children, andall sorts of provisions, and confessed that they had had almost assatisfactory a time at the funeral as they could have had at thehanging.
This funeral stopped the further growth of one thing—the petition to thegovernor for Injun Joe’s pardon. The petition had been largely signed;many tearful and eloquent meetings had been held, and a committee ofsappy women been appointed to go in deep mourning and wail around thegovernor, and implore him to be a merciful ass and trample his dutyunder foot. Injun Joe was believed to have killed five citizens of thevillage, but what of that? If he had been Satan himself there wouldhave been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to apardon-petition, and drip a tear on it from their permanently impairedand leaky water-works.
The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to havean important talk. Huck had learned all about Tom’s adventure from theWelshman and the Widow Douglas, by this time, but Tom said he reckonedthere was one thing they had not told him; that thing was what he wantedto talk about now. Huck’s face saddened. He said:
“I know what it is. You got into No. 2 and never found anything butwhiskey. Nobody told me it was you; but I just knowed it must ’a’ benyou, soon as I heard ’bout that whiskey business; and I knowed youhadn’t got the money becuz you’d ’a’ got at me some way or other andtold me even if you was mum to everybody else. Tom, something’s alwaystold me we’d never get holt of that swag.”
“Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern-keeper. _You_ know his tavernwas all right the Saturday I went to the picnic. Don’t you remember youwas to watch there that night?”
“Oh yes! Why, it seems ’bout a year ago. It was that very night that Ifollered Injun Joe to the widder’s.”
“_You_ followed him?”
“Yes—but you keep mum. I reckon Injun Joe’s left friends behind him, andI don’t want ’em souring on me and doing me mean tricks. If it hadn’tben for me he’d be down in Texas now, all right.”
Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom, who had onlyheard of the Welshman’s part of it before.
“Well,” said Huck, presently, coming back to the main question, “whoevernipped the whiskey in No. 2, nipped the money, too, I reckon—anywaysit’s a goner for us, Tom.”
“Huck, that money wasn’t ever in No. 2!”
“What!” Huck searched his comrade’s face keenly. “Tom, have you got onthe track of that money again?”
“Huck, it’s in the cave!”
Huck’s eyes blazed.
“Say it again, Tom.”
“The money’s in the cave!”
“Tom—honest injun, now—is it fun, or earnest?”
“Earnest, Huck—just as earnest as ever I was in my life. Will you go inthere with me and help get it out?”
“I bet I will! I will if it’s where we can blaze our way to it and notget lost.”
“Huck, we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in theworld.”
“Good as wheat! What makes you think the money’s—”
“Huck, you just wait till we get in there. If we don’t find it I’llagree to give you my drum and every thing I’ve got in the world. I will,by jings.”
“All right—it’s a whiz. When do you say?”
“Right now, if you say it. Are you strong enough?”
“Is it far in the cave? I ben on my pins a little, three or four days,now, but I can’t walk more’n a mile, Tom—least I don’t think I could.”
“It’s about five mile into there the way anybody but me would go, Huck,but there’s a mighty short cut that they don’t anybody but me knowabout. Huck, I’ll take you right to it in a skiff. I’ll float the skiffdown there, and I’ll pull it back again all by myself. You needn’t everturn your hand over.”
“Less start right off, Tom.”
“All right. We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a littlebag or two, and two or three kite-strings, and some of these new-fangledthings they call lucifer matches. I tell you, many’s the time I wished Ihad some when I was in there before.”
A trifle after noon the boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen whowas absent, and got under way at once. When they were several milesbelow “Cave Hollow,” Tom said:
“Now you see this bluff here looks all alike all the way down from thecave hollow—no houses, no wood-yards, bushes all alike. But do you seethat white place up yonder where there’s been a landslide? Well, that’sone of my marks. We’ll get ashore, now.”
They landed.
“Now, Huck, where we’re a-standing you could touch that hole I got outof with a fishing-pole. See if you can find it.”
Huck searched all the place about, and found nothing. Tom proudlymarched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said:
“Here you are! Look at it, Huck; it’s the snuggest hole in this country.You just keep mum about it. All along I’ve been wanting to be a robber,but I knew I’d got to have a thing like this, and where to run acrossit was the bother. We’ve got it now, and we’ll keep it quiet, only we’lllet Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in—because of course there’s got to be aGang, or else there wouldn’t be any style about it. Tom Sawyer’s Gang—itsounds splendid, don’t it, Huck?”
“Well, it just does, Tom. And who’ll we rob?”
“Oh, most anybody. Waylay people—that’s mostly the way.”
“And kill them?”
“No, not always. Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom.”
“What’s a ransom?”
“Money. You make them raise all they can, off’n their friends; and afteryou’ve kept them a year, if it ain’t raised then you kill them. That’sthe general way. Only you don’t kill the women. You shut up the women,but you don’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfullyscared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hatoff and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers—you’ll seethat in any book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they’vebeen in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after thatyou couldn’t get them to leave. If you drove them out they’d turn rightaround and come back. It’s so in all the books.”
“Why, it’s real bully, Tom. I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.”
“Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circusesand all that.”
By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom inthe lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, thenmade their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps broughtthem to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him.He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clayagainst the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flamestruggle and expire.
The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness andgloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presentlyentered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the“jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was notreally a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feethigh. Tom whispered:
“Now I’ll show you something, Huck.”
He held his candle aloft and said:
“Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There—on thebig rock over yonder—done with candle-smoke.”
“Tom, it’s a _cross_!”
“_Now_ where’s your Number Two? ‘_under the cross_,’ hey? Right yonder’swhere I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”
Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:
“Tom, less git out of here!”
“What! and leave the treasure?”
“Yes—leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”
“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where hedied—away out at the mouth of the cave—five mile from here.”
“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways ofghosts, and so do you.”
Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Mis-givings gathered in his mind.But presently an idea occurred to him—
“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’sghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”
The point was well taken. It had its effect.
“Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, thatcross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.”
Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended.Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which thegreat rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result.They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, witha pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, somebacon rind, and the well-gnawed bones of two or three fowls. But therewas no moneybox. The lads searched and researched this place, but invain. Tom said:
“He said _under_ the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under thecross. It can’t be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on theground.”
They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huckcould suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom said:
“Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on the clayabout one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what’sthat for? I bet you the money _is_ under the rock. I’m going to dig inthe clay.”
“That ain’t no bad notion, Tom!” said Huck with animation.
Tom’s “real Barlow” was out at once, and he had not dug four inchesbefore he struck wood.
“Hey, Huck!—you hear that?”
Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered andremoved. They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock.Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as hecould, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He proposedto explore. He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descendedgradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then tothe left, Huck at his heels. Tom turned a short curve, by-and-by, andexclaimed:
“My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!”
It was the treasure-box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern,along with an empty powder-keg, a couple of guns in leather cases, twoor three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbishwell soaked with the water-drip.
“Got it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins withhis hand. “My, but we’re rich, Tom!”
“Huck, I always reckoned we’d get it. It’s just too good to believe, butwe _have_ got it, sure! Say—let’s not fool around here. Let’s snake itout. Lemme see if I can lift the box.”
It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, after an awkwardfashion, but could not carry it conveniently.
“I thought so,” he said; “_They_ carried it like it was heavy, that dayat the ha’nted house. I noticed that. I reckon I was right to think offetching the little bags along.”
The money was soon in the bags and the boys took it up to the crossrock.
“Now less fetch the guns and things,” said Huck.
“No, Huck—leave them there. They’re just the tricks to have when wego to robbing. We’ll keep them there all the time, and we’ll hold ourorgies there, too. It’s an awful snug place for orgies.”
“What orgies?”
“I dono. But robbers always have orgies, and of course we’ve got tohave them, too. Come along, Huck, we’ve been in here a long time. It’sgetting late, I reckon. I’m hungry, too. We’ll eat and smoke when we getto the skiff.”
They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes, looked warilyout, found the coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in theskiff. As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and gotunder way. Tom skimmed up the shore through the long twilight, chattingcheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark.
“Now, Huck,” said Tom, “we’ll hide the money in the loft of the widow’swoodshed, and I’ll come up in the morning and we’ll count it and divide,and then we’ll hunt up a place out in the woods for it where it will besafe. Just you lay quiet here and watch the stuff till I run and hookBenny Taylor’s little wagon; I won’t be gone a minute.”
He disappeared, and presently returned with the wagon, put the two smallsacks into it, threw some old rags on top of them, and started off,dragging his cargo behind him. When the boys reached the Welshman’shouse, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on, theWelshman stepped out and said:
“Hallo, who’s that?”
“Huck and Tom Sawyer.”
“Good! Come along with me, boys, you are keeping everybody waiting.Here—hurry up, trot ahead—I’ll haul the wagon for you. Why, it’s not aslight as it might be. Got bricks in it?—or old metal?”
“Old metal,” said Tom.
“I judged so; the boys in this town will take more trouble and fool awaymore time hunting up six bits’ worth of old iron to sell to the foundrythan they would to make twice the money at regular work. But that’shuman nature—hurry along, hurry along!”
The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about.
“Never mind; you’ll see, when we get to the Widow Douglas’.”
Huck said with some apprehension—for he was long used to being falselyaccused:
“Mr. Jones, we haven’t been doing nothing.”
The Welshman laughed.
“Well, I don’t know, Huck, my boy. I don’t know about that. Ain’t youand the widow good friends?”
“Yes. Well, she’s ben good friends to me, anyway.”
“All right, then. What do you want to be afraid for?”
This question was not entirely answered in Huck’s slow mind before hefound himself pushed, along with Tom, into Mrs. Douglas’ drawing-room.Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and followed.
The place was grandly lighted, and everybody that was of any consequencein the village was there. The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, theRogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, the minister, the editor, and a greatmany more, and all dressed in their best. The widow received the boysas heartily as any one could well receive two such looking beings. Theywere covered with clay and candle-grease. Aunt Polly blushed crimsonwith humiliation, and frowned and shook her head at Tom. Nobody sufferedhalf as much as the two boys did, however. Mr. Jones said:
“Tom wasn’t at home, yet, so I gave him up; but I stumbled on him andHuck right at my door, and so I just brought them along in a hurry.”
“And you did just right,” said the widow. “Come with me, boys.”
She took them to a bedchamber and said:
“Now wash and dress yourselves. Here are two new suits ofclothes—shirts, socks, everything complete. They’re Huck’s—no, nothanks, Huck—Mr. Jones bought one and I the other. But they’ll fit bothof you. Get into them. We’ll wait—come down when you are slicked upenough.”
Then she left.



CHAPTER XXXIV

HUCK said: “Tom, we can slope, if we can find a rope. The window ain’thigh from the ground.”
“Shucks! what do you want to slope for?”
“Well, I ain’t used to that kind of a crowd. I can’t stand it. I ain’tgoing down there, Tom.”
“Oh, bother! It ain’t anything. I don’t mind it a bit. I’ll take care ofyou.”
Sid appeared.
“Tom,” said he, “auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon. Marygot your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody’s been fretting about you.Say—ain’t this grease and clay, on your clothes?”
“Now, Mr. Siddy, you jist ’tend to your own business. What’s all thisblowout about, anyway?”
“It’s one of the widow’s parties that she’s always having. This timeit’s for the Welshman and his sons, on account of that scrape theyhelped her out of the other night. And say—I can tell you something, ifyou want to know.”
“Well, what?”
“Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to spring something on the peoplehere tonight, but I overheard him tell auntie today about it, as asecret, but I reckon it’s not much of a secret now. Everybody knows—thewidow, too, for all she tries to let on she don’t. Mr. Jones was boundHuck should be here—couldn’t get along with his grand secret withoutHuck, you know!”
“Secret about what, Sid?”
“About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow’s. I reckon Mr. Jones wasgoing to make a grand time over his surprise, but I bet you it will droppretty flat.”
Sid chuckled in a very contented and satisfied way.
“Sid, was it you that told?”
“Oh, never mind who it was. _Somebody_ told—that’s enough.”
“Sid, there’s only one person in this town mean enough to do that, andthat’s you. If you had been in Huck’s place you’d ’a’ sneaked down thehill and never told anybody on the robbers. You can’t do any but meanthings, and you can’t bear to see anybody praised for doing good ones.There—no thanks, as the widow says”—and Tom cuffed Sid’s ears and helpedhim to the door with several kicks. “Now go and tell auntie if youdare—and tomorrow you’ll catch it!”
Some minutes later the widow’s guests were at the supper-table, and adozen children were propped up at little side-tables in the same room,after the fashion of that country and that day. At the proper time Mr.Jones made his little speech, in which he thanked the widow for thehonor she was doing himself and his sons, but said that there wasanother person whose modesty—
And so forth and so on. He sprung his secret about Huck’s share inthe adventure in the finest dramatic manner he was master of, but thesurprise it occasioned was largely counterfeit and not as clamorous andeffusive as it might have been under happier circumstances. However,the widow made a pretty fair show of astonishment, and heaped so manycompliments and so much gratitude upon Huck that he almost forgotthe nearly intolerable discomfort of his new clothes in the entirelyintolerable discomfort of being set up as a target for everybody’s gazeand everybody’s laudations.
The widow said she meant to give Huck a home under her roof and have himeducated; and that when she could spare the money she would start him inbusiness in a modest way. Tom’s chance was come. He said:
“Huck don’t need it. Huck’s rich.”
Nothing but a heavy strain upon the good manners of the company keptback the due and proper complimentary laugh at this pleasant joke. Butthe silence was a little awkward. Tom broke it:
“Huck’s got money. Maybe you don’t believe it, but he’s got lots of it.Oh, you needn’t smile—I reckon I can show you. You just wait a minute.”
Tom ran out of doors. The company looked at each other with a perplexedinterest—and inquiringly at Huck, who was tongue-tied.
“Sid, what ails Tom?” said Aunt Polly. “He—well, there ain’t ever anymaking of that boy out. I never—”
Tom entered, struggling with the weight of his sacks, and Aunt Pollydid not finish her sentence. Tom poured the mass of yellow coin upon thetable and said:
“There—what did I tell you? Half of it’s Huck’s and half of it’s mine!”
The spectacle took the general breath away. All gazed, nobody spoke fora moment. Then there was a unanimous call for an explanation. Tom saidhe could furnish it, and he did. The tale was long, but brimful ofinterest. There was scarcely an interruption from any one to break thecharm of its flow. When he had finished, Mr. Jones said:
“I thought I had fixed up a little surprise for this occasion, but itdon’t amount to anything now. This one makes it sing mighty small, I’mwilling to allow.”
The money was counted. The sum amounted to a little over twelve thousanddollars. It was more than any one present had ever seen at one timebefore, though several persons were there who were worth considerablymore than that in property.



CHAPTER XXXV

THE reader may rest satisfied that Tom’s and Huck’s windfall made amighty stir in the poor little village of St. Petersburg. So vast asum, all in actual cash, seemed next to incredible. It was talkedabout, gloated over, glorified, until the reason of many of the citizenstottered under the strain of the unhealthy excitement. Every “haunted” house in St. Petersburg and the neighboring villages was dissected,plank by plank, and its foundations dug up and ransacked for hiddentreasure—and not by boys, but men—pretty grave, unromantic men, too,some of them. Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted, admired,stared at. The boys were not able to remember that their remarks hadpossessed weight before; but now their sayings were treasured andrepeated; everything they did seemed somehow to be regarded asremarkable; they had evidently lost the power of doing and sayingcommonplace things; moreover, their past history was raked up anddiscovered to bear marks of conspicuous originality. The village paperpublished biographical sketches of the boys.
The Widow Douglas put Huck’s money out at six per cent., and JudgeThatcher did the same with Tom’s at Aunt Polly’s request. Each lad hadan income, now, that was simply prodigious—a dollar for every weekday inthe year and half of the Sundays. It was just what the minister got—no,it was what he was promised—he generally couldn’t collect it. A dollarand a quarter a week would board, lodge, and school a boy in those oldsimple days—and clothe him and wash him, too, for that matter.
Judge Thatcher had conceived a great opinion of Tom. He said that nocommonplace boy would ever have got his daughter out of the cave. WhenBecky told her father, in strict confidence, how Tom had taken herwhipping at school, the Judge was visibly moved; and when she pleadedgrace for the mighty lie which Tom had told in order to shift thatwhipping from her shoulders to his own, the Judge said with a fineoutburst that it was a noble, a generous, a magnanimous lie—a lie thatwas worthy to hold up its head and march down through history breast tobreast with George Washington’s lauded Truth about the hatchet! Beckythought her father had never looked so tall and so superb as when hewalked the floor and stamped his foot and said that. She went straightoff and told Tom about it.
Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great soldier someday. He said he meant to look to it that Tom should be admitted to theNational Military Academy and afterward trained in the best law schoolin the country, in order that he might be ready for either career orboth.
Huck Finn’s wealth and the fact that he was now under the Widow Douglas’protection introduced him into society—no, dragged him into it, hurledhim into it—and his sufferings were almost more than he could bear. Thewidow’s servants kept him clean and neat, combed and brushed, and theybedded him nightly in unsympathetic sheets that had not one little spotor stain which he could press to his heart and know for a friend. He hadto eat with a knife and fork; he had to use napkin, cup, and plate;he had to learn his book, he had to go to church; he had to talk soproperly that speech was become insipid in his mouth; whithersoever heturned, the bars and shackles of civilization shut him in and bound himhand and foot.
He bravely bore his miseries three weeks, and then one day turned upmissing. For forty-eight hours the widow hunted for him everywhere ingreat distress. The public were profoundly concerned; they searched highand low, they dragged the river for his body. Early the third morningTom Sawyer wisely went poking among some old empty hogsheads down behindthe abandoned slaughter-house, and in one of them he found the refugee.Huck had slept there; he had just breakfasted upon some stolen odds andends of food, and was lying off, now, in comfort, with his pipe. He wasunkempt, uncombed, and clad in the same old ruin of rags that had madehim picturesque in the days when he was free and happy. Tom routed himout, told him the trouble he had been causing, and urged him to go home.Huck’s face lost its tranquil content, and took a melancholy cast. Hesaid:
“Don’t talk about it, Tom. I’ve tried it, and it don’t work; it don’twork, Tom. It ain’t for me; I ain’t used to it. The widder’s good to me,and friendly; but I can’t stand them ways. She makes me get up justat the same time every morning; she makes me wash, they comb me allto thunder; she won’t let me sleep in the woodshed; I got to wear themblamed clothes that just smothers me, Tom; they don’t seem to any airgit through ’em, somehow; and they’re so rotten nice that I can’tset down, nor lay down, nor roll around anywher’s; I hain’t slid on acellar-door for—well, it ’pears to be years; I got to go to churchand sweat and sweat—I hate them ornery sermons! I can’t ketch a fly inthere, I can’t chaw. I got to wear shoes all Sunday. The widder eats bya bell; she goes to bed by a bell; she gits up by a bell—everything’s soawful reg’lar a body can’t stand it.”
“Well, everybody does that way, Huck.”
“Tom, it don’t make no difference. I ain’t everybody, and I can’t_stand_ it. It’s awful to be tied up so. And grub comes too easy—I don’ttake no interest in vittles, that way. I got to ask to go a-fishing;I got to ask to go in a-swimming—dern’d if I hain’t got to ask to doeverything. Well, I’d got to talk so nice it wasn’t no comfort—I’d gotto go up in the attic and rip out awhile, every day, to git a tastein my mouth, or I’d a died, Tom. The widder wouldn’t let me smoke;she wouldn’t let me yell, she wouldn’t let me gape, nor stretch, norscratch, before folks—” [Then with a spasm of special irritation andinjury]—“And dad fetch it, she prayed all the time! I never see such awoman! I _had_ to shove, Tom—I just had to. And besides, that school’sgoing to open, and I’d a had to go to it—well, I wouldn’t stand _that_,Tom. Looky-here, Tom, being rich ain’t what it’s cracked up to be. It’sjust worry and worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing you was deadall the time. Now these clothes suits me, and this bar’l suits me, andI ain’t ever going to shake ’em any more. Tom, I wouldn’t ever got intoall this trouble if it hadn’t ’a’ ben for that money; now you just takemy sheer of it along with your’n, and gimme a ten-center sometimes—notmany times, becuz I don’t give a dern for a thing ’thout it’s tollablehard to git—and you go and beg off for me with the widder.”
“Oh, Huck, you know I can’t do that. ’Tain’t fair; and besides if you’lltry this thing just a while longer you’ll come to like it.”
“Like it! Yes—the way I’d like a hot stove if I was to set on it longenough. No, Tom, I won’t be rich, and I won’t live in them cussedsmothery houses. I like the woods, and the river, and hogsheads, andI’ll stick to ’em, too. Blame it all! just as we’d got guns, and a cave,and all just fixed to rob, here this dern foolishness has got to come upand spile it all!”
Tom saw his opportunity—
“Lookyhere, Huck, being rich ain’t going to keep me back from turningrobber.”
“No! Oh, good-licks; are you in real dead-wood earnest, Tom?”
“Just as dead earnest as I’m sitting here. But Huck, we can’t let youinto the gang if you ain’t respectable, you know.”
Huck’s joy was quenched.
“Can’t let me in, Tom? Didn’t you let me go for a pirate?”
“Yes, but that’s different. A robber is more high-toned than what apirate is—as a general thing. In most countries they’re awful high up inthe nobility—dukes and such.”
“Now, Tom, hain’t you always ben friendly to me? You wouldn’t shet meout, would you, Tom? You wouldn’t do that, now, _would_ you, Tom?”
“Huck, I wouldn’t want to, and I _don’t_ want to—but what would peoplesay? Why, they’d say, ‘Mph! Tom Sawyer’s Gang! pretty low characters init!’ They’d mean you, Huck. You wouldn’t like that, and I wouldn’t.”
Huck was silent for some time, engaged in a mental struggle. Finally hesaid:
“Well, I’ll go back to the widder for a month and tackle it and see if Ican come to stand it, if you’ll let me b’long to the gang, Tom.”
“All right, Huck, it’s a whiz! Come along, old chap, and I’ll ask thewidow to let up on you a little, Huck.”
“Will you, Tom—now will you? That’s good. If she’ll let up on some ofthe roughest things, I’ll smoke private and cuss private, and crowdthrough or bust. When you going to start the gang and turn robbers?”
“Oh, right off. We’ll get the boys together and have the initiationtonight, maybe.”
“Have the which?”
“Have the initiation.”
“What’s that?”
“It’s to swear to stand by one another, and never tell the gang’ssecrets, even if you’re chopped all to flinders, and kill anybody andall his family that hurts one of the gang.”
“That’s gay—that’s mighty gay, Tom, I tell you.”
“Well, I bet it is. And all that swearing’s got to be done at midnight,in the lonesomest, awfulest place you can find—a ha’nted house is thebest, but they’re all ripped up now.”
“Well, midnight’s good, anyway, Tom.”
“Yes, so it is. And you’ve got to swear on a coffin, and sign it withblood.”
“Now, that’s something _like_! Why, it’s a million times bullier thanpirating. I’ll stick to the widder till I rot, Tom; and if I git to bea reg’lar ripper of a robber, and everybody talking ’bout it, I reckonshe’ll be proud she snaked me in out of the wet.”
CONCLUSION
SO endeth this chronicle. It being strictly a history of a _boy_, itmust stop here; the story could not go much further without becoming thehistory of a _man_. When one writes a novel about grown people, he knowsexactly where to stop—that is, with a marriage; but when he writes ofjuveniles, he must stop where he best can.
Most of the characters that perform in this book still live, and areprosperous and happy. Some day it may seem worth while to take up thestory of the younger ones again and see what sort of men and women theyturned out to be; therefore it will be wisest not to reveal any of thatpart of their lives at present.