CONTENTS.

PORTRAITS
Matilda of Flanders, Queen of William the Conqueror....015
Matilda of Scotland, Queen of Henry....045
Matilda of Boulogne, Queen of Stephen.....074
Eleanora of Aquitaine, Queen of Henry II.....089
Berengaria of Navarre, Queen of Richard I.....110
Isabella of Angouleme, Queen of King John.....123
Eleanor of Provence, Queen of Henry III...137
Eleanora of Castile, Queen of Edward I.....160
Marguerite of France, Second Queen of Edward I.....175
Isabella of France, Queen of Edward II......181
Philippa of Hainault, Queen of Edward III.....214
Anne of Bohemia, Queen of Richard II.....234
Isabella of Valois, Second Queen of Richard II.....243
Joanna of Navarre, Queen of Henry IV.....254
Katherine of Valois, Queen of Henry V.....263
Margaret of Anjou, Queen of Henry VI.....280
Elizabeth Woodville, Queen of Edward IV.......316
Anne of Warwick, Queen of Richard III.....327
Elizabeth of York, Queen of Henry VII.....332
Katharine of Arragon, First Queen of Henry VIII.....342
Anne Boleyn, Second Queen of Henry VIII.....378
Jane Seymour, Third Queen of Henry VIII.....403
Anne of Cleves, Fourth Queen of Henry VIII......409
Katharine Howard, Fifth Queen of Henry VIII......422
Katharine Parr, Sixth Queen of Henry VIII.....430




STORIES OF THE LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND
Compiled From Agates Strickland, For Young People
By Rosalie Kaufman. 


THE QUEENS OF ENGLAND.



CHAPTER I. MATILDA OF FLANDERS, WIFE OF WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR(1031-1083).
|Matilda, wife of the great William, the Conqueror, was an exceedinglyhandsome woman, and as she had received the best education that waspossible in her times, she was as celebrated for her learning as forher beauty. She was, besides, generous and religious, and had all thequalities necessary for the position she was called upon to fill.
She was famed for her fancy-work, which was looked upon as one of themost important and desirable occupations for ladies of rank; andany woman who could spin, weave and embroider was considered quite atreasure.
Matilda had three cousins who were such skilful needlewomen, that theywere sought in marriage by the greatest princes of Europe. Their workhas not been preserved, but Matilda's still remains and is called theBayeux Tapestry. It is the most wonderful achievement in needlework everaccomplished by any woman. But we shall tell more about it, by-and-bye.
Matilda's father was Earl of Flanders, a rich, powerful prince, skilledin the arts of peace and war. He was, besides, such a popular man thatall the rulers in his neighborhood were anxious to win the hand ofhis beautiful daughter.

Her cousin, William of Normandy, was the most accomplished of them all,and loved her devotedly. He was handsome, brave and talented, and sostrong, that, it is said, no man could bend his bow but himself. And hewas such a sure marksman, that even when riding at full speed, he seldommissed his aim. It is remarkable that although he was the tallest man inhis army, he passed through all his battles without the loss of a dropof blood, until towards the close of his career, when he was wounded byhis own son.
Strange to say, this young man did not find favor in the eyes of hislady cousin at all; this mortified him so much, that he resolved to win her in spite of herself.
He had a rival in a young Saxon nobleman named Brihtric Meaw, who hadcome to Flanders as ambassador from Edward the Confessor, then on theBritish throne. This favored gentleman was so fair and light-haired thathe was nicknamed "Snow." Matilda loved him in secret, which is probablythe reason why she would not listen to her cousin William. But Brihtric Meaw does not seem to have cared particularly for her, andso did not find out what her sentiments were towards him. Thus, quiteinnocently, he never attempted to court her, and she could not forgivehis indifference. Still her mind was filled with him, and this made hertreat William coldly. He was not to be baffled, however, but courted herthrough seven long and tedious years.
At last he became impatient, so one day when Matilda was going home fromchurch, he managed to meet her, as lovers will. Perhaps she was moreunkind to him than usual and made him angry, otherwise I do not know howto account for his behavior on that occasion, but he seized hold of her,rolled her in the dirt, then actually beat her. Before she had time tocall for help, after she had recovered from her surprise, he jumped onhis horse, and rode off as fast as he could go.
Now, she might have been induced to forgive him for spoiling her goodclothes, but how she could have had anything more to do with a fellow,no matter what his rank might be, who could dare to treat her sobrutally, is hard to understand. Perhaps the women were not so highspirited then as they are now, but certain it is that instead of gettinginto a rage, stamping her feet and forbidding him ever to approach heragain, the princess was won. This remarkable style of love-making wentstraight to her heart, and brought matters to a crisis. It may be thatshe feared another beating, or that she was finally convinced of thegreatness of his love; whatever it was, she consented to become hiswife, forthwith.
The wedding was celebrated at William's Castle in Normandy, Matildahaving gone there accompanied by her parents, and a large retinue ofladies and gentlemen. Her trousseau was magnificent, and on her weddingday she wore a superb velvet robe embroidered with gold and pearls. It was so rich and costly, that it was for a long time preservedin the treasury of the Cathedral of Bayeux with William's mantle andhelmet, which were adorned with precious stones.
At the time of his marriage, William's affairs were in a most perilouscondition, for he was surrounded by powerful neighbors who wanted toget possession of the rich fields of Normandy. They hoped to divide themamong themselves and leave the duke nothing. He had enemies among hisown subjects too, who would have been pleased to turn him off and havehis cousin Guy of Burgundy to govern them, because they thought he hada better right to the dukedom of Normandy than William had. Perhaps thiswas so, but the latter had too determined a will to yield, and he hadbeen a leader nearly all his life.
When he was only five years old, he formed a battalion of boys of hisown age whom he drilled in military practice every day. It must havebeen a pretty sight, and no doubt the little fellows fancied themselvesreal warriors. Of course disputes arose, all of which William settledwith remarkable skill.
He was a good student too, for he knew enough of Latin at eight years ofage, to read and explain Caesar's Commentaries.
When he was about seven, his father, Duke Robert, went on a pilgrimageto the Holy Land. But before he did so, he assembled all the nobles ofhis realm, and made them swear fealty to his bright, promising child,whom he hugged and kissed tenderly, then presented to his subjects astheir future Sovereign, saying: "He is little, but he will grow."
Not long after this, Henry, King of France, invaded William's dominion,but he was defeated, because the young duke had such excellent advisersand assistants. 
The King was so indignant at this defeat,that he incited the Norman nobles to stir up an insurrection, hoping, nodoubt, to punish the boy by depriving him of his title, altogether.

Once when William was out hunting, he passed the night at a remotecastle without military escort. His cousin, Guy of Burgundy, hearing ofit, laid a plot to kill him, but this was prevented by the Court fool,who accidentally found it out and travelled all night, at full speed, towarn the Duke of his danger. He managed to get into the castle at fouro'clock in the morning, and knocked violently on William's chamberdoor with the handle of his whip, shouting: "get up! get up, my lord!"William obeyed the summons, and mounting his swiftest horse, halfdressed, rode with fiery speed for many hours before he was beyonddanger. Even while making his escape, he might have been caught, forhis horse was almost exhausted when he had the good fortune to meet agentleman who supplied him with another.
Later, the young duke had a chance to turn the tables on his cousin,Guy, whom he captured in battle. But remembering that they had beenfriends in early childhood, William forgave the attempt his cousin hadmade on his life, and released him.
The King of France was just planning another attack on William'sdominions when the young man married, and then Matilda's fatherbecame such a powerful ally that the king hesitated. Soon after he died.Relieved of this anxiety, the duke thought he might settle down andenjoy the society of his young wife; but, the Archbishop of Rouen, whohad reasons of his own for trying to prevent the marriage, pronounced itunlawful, and the young couple were so distressed that they appealedto the Pope. He decided that if each would build and endow an Abbey, aswell as a hospital for the blind, he would grant them dispensation. Thiswas not difficult, so Matilda founded the Holy Trinity for Nuns, andWilliam founded the Monastery of St. Stephen.
Then William set to work to erect a palace for his own dwelling verynear the Monastery. Matilda had a great taste for architecture and tookpleasure in superintending these buildings. The great hall of the palacewas one of the finest apartments in all Europe and the edifice itselfwas superb.
This royal couple did everything to render their subjects happy andcontented, and provided work for them by building ships and harbors,which promoted trade also.
Though we know that Matilda did not love her husband before marriage,she became a devoted wife afterwards, and William showed his entireconfidence in her by leaving her to govern his country when he went overto England to obtain a promise from Edward the Confessor that he wouldadopt him as successor to the throne.
He was kindly received in England, and Edward gave him some fine hawks,hounds and other presents. Then Matilda had a little boy whose birthadded considerably to her happiness. He was called Robert, after hisgrandpapa, and there was great rejoicing in Normandy over this event. Ifthey could have foreseen how he would turn out, the feeling would havebeen very different. {023}In course of time Matilda had eight otherchildren, and during many years of peace and national prosperity, sheand her husband devoted themselves to their care and education.
[[A.D. 1065.]] Now it happened that once, when Harold, Edward theConfessor's half brother, was out fishing in an open boat, he wasovertaken by a storm and obliged to seek refuge in the territory ofthe Earl of Ponthieu, who seized him and shut him up in prison. Williamrescued him, treated him most kindly, and even promised him one of hisdaughters in marriage, though she was but seven years old.
[Illustration: 8027]
Harold acted like a sneak, and pretended to be highly flattered; but itwas not his intention ever to marry the girl at all.
He listened to William's narration of how Edward had adopted him as hissuccessor to the British throne, and made a solemn promise to assist himto get it. Soon after his return to England, he married the widow of thePrince of Wales, and at Edward's death he took no notice of his promiseto William, but had himself proclaimed king.
Of course such conduct aroused William's wrath, and, with the aid of hiswife's relations, he resolved to invade England.
[[A.D. 1066.]] This was the year 1066, and a memorable {024}one onaccount of the appearance in the heavens of a splendid three-tailedcomet. We are pleased to have such a visitor and to be able to gaze atit and study it with the aid of telescopes, but in that time the peoplewere so superstitious that they thought it portended evil, and so itspread terror throughout the land. The death of the King, whichoccurred only a few days after its appearance, served to encourage thesuperstition. When the astrologers foretold its approach they announcedit thus:
               "In the year one thousand and sixty-six,
               Comets to England's sons an end shall fix."
One of the largest and finest pieces of handiwork that Matildaaccomplished, was the tapestry representing this comet in the heavenswith its three fiery tails spread all across the canvas. A group ofterror-stricken Saxon princes, priests and ladies have rushed out oftheir dwellings to look at it, and are pointing towards it, theirfaces expressing the utmost anxiety. To be sure the comet looked, whencompared with the objects in the picture, a great deal larger than itcould possibly have been, but probably, the size was suggested by theawe it inspired.
Matilda did not do all this work alone; if she had, Hood's Song of theShirt might well apply to the hundreds and thousands of cross stitchesthat she would have made, and we should pity her for having such a wearytask. But she was assisted by all the ladies of her court, who laughedand chatted merrily while their hands were busily employed.
Well, William started on his expedition to England, leaving his wifeto rule at home, and his son Robert, then only thirteen years of age,military chief of Normandy.
A large number of his subjects objected to this invasion, SO when thewhole fleet was becalmed at St. Valleri, the
{025}
[Illustration: 0029]
{027}common soldiers complained and declared that God was theiradversary, and had stopped the wind to keep them back. The king did notknow what to say to this, but at last he hit upon something that he knewwould impress them. He ordered the shrine of St. Valleri to be broughtfrom the tomb and placed in an open field, then invited everybody topray to the saint to intercede with the Almighty for a breeze. Crowds ofpeople far and near, as well as the Norman soldiers, brought offerings,and in a short time the shrine was buried in the gold, silver and otherprecious gifts that they placed upon it. The wind did not immediatelychange, but the malcontents had something to think about, and the delaygave Matilda time to carry out a pleasant surprise that she had plannedfor her husband. One day she appeared in the harbor on a splendid vesselof war that she had caused to be built as a present for William. Shecalled it the Mora. At the prow of the vessel was a gold image of theiryoungest son. With one hand he held a trumpet to his lips, and withthe other a bow with the arrow aimed towards England. Loud cheering andjoyful exclamations greeted Matilda's appearance, and her husband wasovercome by this mark of her affection.
The Mora carried a red flag at her mast-head by day; it was replaced atnight by a bright light that served as a guide for the other vessels ofthe fleet. Scarcely was the duke well established on board than the longwished-for wind arose, every man was summoned to his post, and they setsail. Matilda went back home.
The Norman fleet met some very rough weather and lost two of theirships. On the 28th of September, 1066, they landed on the coast ofSussex.
The duke was the last person to step on shore. As he did so, he stumbledand fell. Probably he was still giddy {028}from the motion of thevessel, but his followers thought it an evil omen and raised a great cryof distress. The duke's presence of mind did not desert him. He pickedup two handfuls of sand, exclaiming: "See, Seigneurs! by the splendor ofGod, I have seized England with both hands!"
Then a meal was served on the beach, and afterwards the soldiershaving selected a spot, began to put up the wooden fortress that theyhad brought in sections, from Normandy.
A piece of Matilda's tapestry represents the soldiers, assisting thecarpenters and builders in this work.
The army tarried four days on the beach. But there were no telegraphs ornewspapers in those days, so Harold knew nothing of the approach ofhis enemy until a knight arrived from Sussex, having ridden all the waywithout food or rest, and rushing into his presence shouted at the topof his voice: "The Normans have come! they have landed at Hastings andbuilt up a fort! they will rend the land from thee and thine unlessthou defend it well!" Harold sent a messenger offering to buy off theNormans, but William replied that he had not come for money, but toclaim the realm that Edward the Confessor had given him.
"Nay; you ask too much of us, Sire," said the messenger. "Harold iswilling to purchase your departure with silver, gold and fine garments,but if you refuse, he will give you battle on Saturday night."
The duke accepted the challenge. The night preceding the battle waspassed by the English in dancing, singing and gambling; but the Normansprayed, fasted, and confessed their sins.
The battle was fought seven miles from Hastings. Taillefer, the warriorminstrel of Normandy, rode gallantly {029}
[Illustration: 0033]
{0031}at the head of the chivalry of his native land, singing thewar songs of Rollo. William had three horses killed under him that daywithout receiving a single scratch himself. Harold was killed, and thevictorious Duke William pitched his tent on the battle-field that night.
When Matilda received the joyful tidings of her husband's triumph, shewas praying in a church, which, she ordered to be forever after calledNotre Dame de Bonnes Nouvelles, in memory of the good news she hadreceived there.
A celebrated piece of embroidery made by her after the victoryrepresents her husband pointing towards his noble steed. He is dressedin a complete suit of armor, and the likeness is said to be as perfectas it could be, represented in cross stitch.
[Illustration: 0035]

{032}



CHAPTER II.
[[A.D. 1066.]] On the Monday following the battle of Hastings, Williamrode into the city of London, on horseback, followed by a long train ofthe nobility of England and Normandy. He proceeded to Westminster Abbey,where he was crowned King of England.
Grand preparations had been made for this event, and such a brilliantcoronation had never been seen. Crowds of people gathered in thestreets, and the duke's fine presence and noble bearing won all hearts.
Holding the crown aloft the archbishop asked the nobles assembled, ifthey were willing to receive this duke for their king. They were soboisterous in their eager assent, that the Norman soldiers who hadassembled outside the Abbey in case their protection should be needed,mistook the noise for the rising of the Saxons, and set fire to most ofthe buildings in the neighborhood. It required prompt action on thepart of the more sober-minded of the Normans, to prevent the flames fromdestroying the Abbey itself. William was dismayed at this occurrence,and it was not until he showed himself in his coronation robes andcrown, that his followers could be restored to order and quiet.
Now, one would naturally suppose that in those rude times, Matilda'sneighbors would have taken advantage of her husband's absence to invadeher dominion, but she governed with so much skill and prudence that theydid {033}not venture to molest her, and she made herself universallybeloved and respected.
Having recounted the good traits of this queen, it is only fair topresent the bad ones too, because nobody is entirely without faults, yetit is painful to be obliged to refer to one very dark deed of which shewas guilty.
[Illustration: 0037]
She must have had a large share of vanity, for she never forgaveBrihtric Meaw because he did not return her early affection, andfourteen years later she sought revenge in this wise: She persuaded herhusband to deprive Meaw of all his lands and bestow them on her; thenshe had him put in prison where, after several months, he died. Thiswas a very serious crime, and it is hard to understand how a woman witheverything in the world to make her {034}happy, and with qualities sofine and noble as Matilda's certainly were, could have been capable ofit.
After an absence of six months, William returned to Normandy,accompanied by a number of Saxon noblemen. He brought a large quantityof costly spoils, among which were garments richly embroidered in silverand gold by the skilful hands of the Anglo-Saxon women, whose beautifulwork was renowned all over the world.
The whole summer was spent by the royal couple in travelling andamusements until news was brought to William that his Saxon subjectswere planning an insurrection, when he hastened back to England. Hearrived before any very serious steps had been taken.
He now began to see that his position would be in every respect moreagreeable, and his subjects would be better, satisfied if he had hisfamily at court, so he sent a numerous company over to Normandy toconduct them to England.
[[A.D. 1068.]] They proceeded at once to Winchester, where the queen'scoronation took place with great pomp and ceremony. In order to renderit still more imposing, William had himself crowned a second time, buton this occasion there was no such excitement as disturbed the firstcrowning. Everybody was charmed with the graceful, majestic appearanceof the new queen, though some of the Saxons objected to her being calledRegina, which is the Latin word, signifying Queen. However, Williaminsisted upon this honor being conferred on his wife; though previous tohis reign all the wives of the various kings had simply been termed "thelady, his companion." To be sure, few of the queens of England couldclaim more illustrious descent than Matilda; for Alfred, the best andnoblest of their sovereigns, was one of her ancestors, and {035}she wasconnected with most of the royal families in Europe.
After the coronation ceremony, a grand banquet was served, at which boththe king and queen presided.
Now, Matilda had to be served by her hew subjects, the English, becausethey would not have been satisfied if she had kept only her Normanladies in attendance.
The king was so happy that he bestowed favors right and left in orderto gain the affection of the nation. He also revived some of the oldoffices at court, which was a very popular act. Among these, was thatof grand pannetier, whose duty it was to carry the salt and thecarving-knives from the pantry to the king's dining-table on stateoccasions. His fees were the salt-cellars, spoons, knives, andbread-covers laid on the royal table. Forks were not among the luxuriesof William the Conqueror's day, when people must have verified theproverb of later times, that "fingers were made before forks." The Manorof Addington was presented to the cook for preparing a kind of whitesoup that tickled his majesty's palate.
During the grand coronation banquet, a noble cavalier, named Marmion,rode into the hall on horseback, completely armed, and shouted out threetimes: "If anybody denies that our most gracious sovereign LordWilliam, and his spouse Matilda, are King and Queen of England, he isa false-hearted traitor and liar, and here I do challenge him to singlecombat."
Nobody accepted the challenge.
Under a glass case' at the Museum of Bayeux is preserved to this veryday, a piece of canvas, nineteen inches broad and sixty-seven yardslong, on which Queen Matilda embroidered the whole conquest of Englandby her husband. There are many hundred figures of men, horses, birds,beasts, houses, trees, castles, and churches, all done {036}in theirproper colors.
The designs were made by a dwarf artist named Turold, who seems to havebeen farsighted enough to know that the work would become celebrated,for he has curiously managed to introduce his own figure or name on thecanvas wherever it was possible.
[Illustration: 9040]
After William and his wife were seated on the throne, there was a seasonof tranquillity. Then the Conqueror laid the foundation for the greatTower of London, as well as other strong fortresses. But revolts beganagain, and the Normans demanded the return of Matilda. She resolved togratify them, but in so doing displeased the English, for they knew thatduring her absence there would be fewer celebrations at court, and theywould thus be deprived of opportunities for disposing of their finegoods.
[[A.D. 1069.]] All the working people were affected, more or less,by her departure, and they {037}got into a habit of gathering at eachother's houses to discuss their wrongs and grievances. Fearing that theymight stimulate one another to revolt, William instituted the Curfew, orthe tolling of a bell, at eight o'clock every evening. This was a signalfor all the lights and fires to be put out in the dwellings; the wordwas originally _couvre feu_, which means extinguishing fires.
[Illustration: 8041]
Then William made war in the north of England and laid waste the wholecountry. In one of the battles a fair young Saxon, who was engaged toone of the king's daughters, was killed.
As time went on, Norman customs were adopted in England, and thatdialect, which was a mixture of French and Danish, became popular. Thelearned wrote and conversed in Latin.
Now, the ladies of Normandy, whose husbands were fighting William'sbattles, began to grow tired of the long separation; besides, certainbits of gossip that came over the water to them aroused their jealousy.So, many of them insisted on recalling their lords who, for the sake ofpeace, were obliged to desert the king, and obey. The queen herselfset a very bad example, for growing jealous of a daughter of one of thepriests, she actually had the {038}poor girl secretly put to death. WhenWilliam went to Normandy, he beat her severely for this shameful deed.
Such treatment does not seem to have surprised her very much, though,for she forgave him just as she did for a similar indignity before hermarriage, and the royal couple were soon living on the most amicableterms again.
But there was one serious cause of disagreement between them. It was thegreat affection that the queen felt for her eldest son Robert. She lovedhim better than any of her other children, while the third son, WilliamRufus, was the king's favorite.
Robert was a proud, self-willed, quick-tempered lad, who always wantedto rule, and the position of trust and importance that he had filled inNormandy during his father's absence had encouraged this disposition. Hewas spoiled, and showed an inclination to rebel when William resumed thereins of government.
[[A.D. 1076.]] One day when he was walking with some companions aroundthe castle, his two younger brothers, William Rufus and Richard, with adesire for boyish fun, threw some dirty water out of the windowdirectly on his head. Instead of receiving the joke good-naturedly, orretaliating as any brother might be expected to do, Robert flew into apassion, and with a drawn sword in his hand rushed up-stairs, declaringthat he would kill the offenders. A great tumult ensued, and it was onlythe appearance of their father who burst into the room, flourishing hissword, and pronouncing angry threats, that prevented fatal consequences.
That evening Robert privately withdrew from court with a party of youngnobles who were attached to him. He stood upon his dignity and refusedto bow to his father's will.
{039}
[Illustration: 0043]
{041}About this time the Princess Constance married, and shortly afterPrincess Cicely entered a convent.
Then the queen received a severe blow in the death of her second son,Richard, a prince of most amiable disposition and studious habits. ButRobert's bad conduct and his disrespectful behavior towards his fathergave her more real sorrow than anything else in the world.
[Illustration: 8045]
After a short absence he sought the king's presence and made a requestthat he should be appointed Sovereign of Normandy, saying, "It is myright; have you not promised to bestow it on me?"
"It is not my custom to strip until I go to bed," replied the king,adding some wholesome advice.
Then Robert, becoming impertinent,' said he did not come to listen tosermons, and angrily withdrew. He immediately went to live with hisuncle, the Earl of Flanders. There he lived such a wild, extravagantlife that his mother was frequently called upon to supply him with extrafunds. When her private purse was empty, she sold her jewels and evenher garments to provide the wicked youth with what he demanded.
All this was kept secret from William, which was certainly very wrong.But he found it out at last, and it need scarcely be said, that he wasexceedingly angry. However, {042}he did not beat his wife this time;perhaps he had heard before of women making sacrifices for theirchildren, but he was hurt at Matilda's lack of confidence in him,and told her very truly, "The woman who deceives her husband is thedestruction of her own house." She defended herself so well, that heforgave her at last, and continued to love her till the very end of herlife.
But somebody had to be punished, and the victim was the agent whohad forwarded the money to Robert, and attended to the selling of thequeen's jewels and garments. The poor man was condemned to have hiseyes put out. Filled with terror, he ran to a monastery, where, withintwenty-four hours he was shaven and shorn and became a professed monk.Thus was he protected.
Robert's ambition would not let him rest, so he prepared an attack onEngland. There was a furious battle, and it so happened, that in themidst of it a hand to hand encounter took place between father and son.William was run through the arm with his adversary's lance and unhorsed.It is to be hoped, that as the warriors wore their visors down theydid not recognize each other, for it would be horrible to think of afather's being intentionally wounded by his own flesh and blood. Hecried out so loudly that he was known at once; then Robert raised himtenderly from the ground and begged to be forgiven, while he placed thewounded king on his own horse and led him to a place of safety.
It was a long time after the battle, in which Robert came offvictorious, before he was blessed with his father's forgiveness, andthis was brought about by the over-fond mother. Her health had sufferedso much on account of the constant anxiety to which she was subjected,that William granted her request to invite his erring son home. ButRobert was never admitted to his father's confidence.
[[A.D. 1078.]] {043}It was William the Conqueror who established thecelebrated Doomsday Book which contained a survey of all the landsthroughout England. The object of this book was to enable the sovereignso to regulate taxes as to feel sure that he received as much as hedared exact from each subject.
It was while her husband was making one of his expeditions to Normandythat Queen Matilda heard of a German hermit who was renowned for hisgift of prophecy. She sent to consult him as to what was likely to bethe result of the ill feeling existing between her husband and Robert.
The hermit required three days for his reply, which was: "Tell yourmistress that the Most High has made known to me in a dream, what shedesires to hear. I saw in my vision, a pasture covered with grass andflowers. A noble charger was feeding thereon. A numerous herd gatherednear eager to share the feast, but the charger would not permit them toapproach. But, alas! suddenly he dropped dead, and a poor silly steerappeared in his place. He had no power to keep off the meaner animals,so they all rushed into the field and trampled down the grass andflowers that they failed to devour. This is the explanation:
"The noble steed is William the Conqueror, who by his wisdom and powerkeeps his surrounding foes in awe. The dull beast is Robert, who willsucceed him. The other animals are the envious princes who are waitingfor an opportunity to attack the fields of Normandy, and destroy theland. If the illustrious lady do not labor to restore peace, there willbe nothing but misery, ruin, and desolation to her beloved country."This message came close upon the death of the Princess Constance, andadded so much to Matilda's sorrow that her health broke down, and shedied. She had reigned seventeen years, and was the first Anglo-NormanQueen of England.
Matilda's funeral was conducted with great pomp, and the tomb that wasplaced over her grave was a mass of sculpture and precious stones.
The king mourned the loss of his noble companion for many days; he gaveup all his favorite sports and became an irritable, melancholy man. Hesurvived his wife only four years.
Then Robert got possession of Normandy, but his attempt to place himselfon the throne of England shortly afterwards failed.
[[A.D. 1087.]] William Rufus, called the Red King on account of thecolor of his hair, succeeded William the Conqueror, and his brotherHenry became king when he died. Robert ended his life in a prison, afterbeing shut up in it for twenty-eight years.
[Illustration: 0048]
{045}



CHAPTER III. MATILDA OF SCOTLAND, QUEEN OF HENRY I.
[[A.D. 1077-1118.]]
|This princess is called "The Good Queen," a title that shows how dearshe must have been to her subjects, and how much she must have done topromote their happiness. She is the only princess of Scotland who evershared the throne of an English king.
Her aunt, Christina Atheling, was Abbess of Rumsey, and did all shecould to influence Matilda to take the veil and enter a convent. Butthis was very displeasing to her father, the King of Scotland, and oneday when she entered his presence with a nun's veil fastened to herhead, he indignantly tore it to pieces, saying that he intended herto become a wife some day, not a nun. This circumstance made such animpression on her youthful mind, that she never forgot it.
When the king made this remark, there was a young man present whose namewas Alan, Duke of Bretagne. He was the widower of Constance, Williamthe Conqueror's daughter, consequently much too old for Matilda;nevertheless, he made up his mind on the spot that he would make her hiswife if he could get her consent.
But now we must tell something about the illustrious mother of thisprincess, to whom she was indebted for her earliest lessons in piety andvirtue.
Her name was Margaret, and her parents were Edward Atheling, surnamedthe Outlaw, and a daughter of Henry II. of Germany.
[[A.D. 1068.]] {046}When she was a young lady, her family determined toleave England and take up their residence in Hungary, but the ship onwhich they embarked became disabled, and was driven by a storm into theFrith of Forth. Malcolm Canmore, who was King of Scotland, chanced to bepresent when they arrived, and so struck was he with the extreme beautyof the Lady Margaret, that a few days later he demanded her hand inmarriage. This offer pleased her brother Edgar Atheling very much,because, not only was it a fine thing to have his sister in such a loftyposition, but Malcolm had received them all so kindly and hospitablythat he had made an excellent impression, so Edgar joyfully gave hisconsent.
The spot where Margaret first set foot on Scottish soil is to this daycalled Queen's Ferry in memory of the circumstance.
Now, Malcolm could neither read nor write, and he was so rough and wild,that many of her Saxon friends objected to so pure and intellectual agirl as Margaret uniting herself to him. She loved him, however, andimmediately after her marriage she set to work to reform her householdas well as she could, and to introduce religious ceremonies, which weresadly wanting..
Her husband felt her superiority, and had so much confidence in herjudgment that he left the entire control of the royal household in herhands. He entertained such respect and admiration for her virtues aswell as her mental qualities, that her influence over him was excellent.
All persons who were leading bad, immoral lives were dismissed from thecourt, and no one was allowed to hold an office of any kind who failedin honesty or sobriety.
Although grace was said daily after each meal, by Turgot, the courtchaplain, the Scotch nobles were in the habit of leaving the table assoon as they had satisfied their
{047}
[Illustration: 0051]
{049}stomachs, without waiting for the grace. This displeased Margaret,and she began to consider what she could do to keep them in their seatswithout commanding them to stay. At last her woman's ingenuity fixedupon this arrangement. She ordered a cup of the very choicest wine inthe royal cellar to be served to each man after grace, and by degreesshe had the satisfaction of seeing not a single vacant chair at table solong as Turgot remained. In time the "grace cup" became an establishedcustom not only at court, but in the castles of the nobility, and thedwellings of the humbler classes throughout the land.
Margaret was also a devoted mother, and bestowed a great deal of careupon the education of her seven children. The learned Turgot was theirpreceptor and confessor, and when the queen was dying she said to him:"Farewell! my life is drawing to a close; to you I commit the care of mychildren; teach them above all things to love and fear God."
Her husband had been killed by treachery a short time previously, so thefive princes and two princesses were left orphans.
Their uncle Edgar was very kind to them all, and placed the girls,Matilda and Mary, at the convent, with their aunt Christina, where heknew that they would have a better training and education than he couldpossibly bestow on them. There they remained for a long time, and werecarefully instructed in the art of reading as well as in good manners.
Christina always hoped that they would both become nuns, and consideringthat they were entirely under her influence, with no parents, theirbrothers at a distance, and no home but the convent, it seems strangethat they did not. But they were reserved for another fate.
In those rude times the Norman nobles were so rough {050}anduncultivated that they had no respect for any woman excepting thoseconsecrated to religion, consequently it was a common custom for younggirls to dress in nun's attire for protection.
But Christina made her nieces wear the great, thick, heavy, black veilbecause it was all settled in her mind that it was to be forever, andwhenever she saw Matilda without hers, she scolded her and treatedher very harshly. Poor Matilda found it so uncomfortable, and no doubtunbecoming too, that she wept many a bitter tear over the infliction,and the moment she was out of her stern aunt's sight, she would flingthe veil on the ground and stamp upon it. During the seven long yearsthat she spent in the dreary convent, she must, many a time, have wishedfor her dear father to relieve her, as he once did.
Matilda was passionately fond of music and devoted much time andattention to this art. When she became Queen of England she wasexceedingly liberal in her rewards to those monks who sang the churchservice well, and did everything in her power to encourage them.
While at the convent, this princess received two offers of marriage. Thefirst was from the Alan, to whom we referred at the beginning of thisbiography. But fortunately for her he died before she was called upon togive an answer, for she positively asserted that she would rather wearthe odious veil forever than wed him. The other offer was from the youngand handsome William Warren, Earl of Surrey. But him she did not love,and although he was one of the richest and most powerful of the baronetsof England or Normandy, she refused him. She was somewhat sly on thisoccasion, for she pleaded her devotion to a religious life as excuse,though the real one was the affection she entertained for Henry, fourthson of William the Conqueror.
{051}
[Illustration: 0055]
{053}She was then at Wilton Abbey, near Winchester, the favorite homeof the Norman king. Edgar Atheling, who was very fond of his niece,went frequently to see her, and Henry sometimes accompanied him. On suchoccasions it is probable that Matilda managed to leave off her veil, forshe was too pretty not to be somewhat vain, and Henry was too young andardent not to have his heart touched by her charms.
[Illustration: 8057]
This prince was surnamed Beauclerc because he was such a good student,and Matilda was so well, educated herself that she could appreciate hisintellect and accomplishments. Therefore she preferred him to Warren,and no doubt by a whispered word, or a sly glance, succeeded in lettinghim know it.
Of all William the Conqueror's sons, Henry was most in favor among theEnglish, owing to his having been born on their soil: nevertheless itwas a long time before he became king.
When on his deathbed, his father called Henry to him and made thefollowing prophecy: "Thy elder brothers may go before thee. Robertshall have Normandy, and William shall have England, but thou shalt beinheritor of all my honors, and shalt excel both thy brethren in richesand power."
This dying prophecy was not fulfilled until he was thirty-two years old,when Wat Tyrrel's arrow placed him on the throne. It happened inthis way: William Rufus, with his brother Henry and a large party ofattendants, were hunting one day, when Henry, by some mistake, wasseparated from the others and found himself quite alone in an adjoiningforest. Suddenly, the string of his cross-bow {054}snapped, and heentered the hut of the nearest forester to have it mended.
A shrivelled-up old woman, who sat on the hearth-stone and looked likeone of the witches in Macbeth, saluted him as king. He was very muchsurprised at this, and began to assure her that she had made a mistake.Without heeding his reply, she continued in a cracked voice, holding upher long, bony forefinger in token of warning,
                   "Hasty news to thee I bring,
                   Henry, thou art now a king;
                   Mark the words and heed them well,
                   Which to thee in sooth I tell,
                   And recall them in the hour
                   Of thy regal state and power."
Henry was amazed, but had no time to reply before the Red King'sattendants surrounded the door of the hut with news that their Sovereignhad been shot and instantly killed. Wat Tyrrel's arrow had accidentallystruck him in the head, and the unlucky marksman had fled to escapepunishment.
Prince Henry did not wait to weep over the sad fate of his brother, noreven to see his body properly cared for, but jumped into the saddle andmade speed for Winchester. The cause of this haste was that theroyal treasurer, who happened to be present at the chase, declaredemphatically that the crown now belonged to Robert, and started on arace with Henry to announce it at the Norman palace. But Robert was inthe Holy Land, so, with drawn sword, Henry forced the treasurer to giveup his keys, and at once took possession of the royal robes, jewels,and regalia. This high-handed action caused dissatisfaction among thosenobles who owned lands in Normandy, for they were desirous that theirduke should succeed; so it was resolved to settle the question in thecouncil chamber. All the
{055}
[Illustration: 0059]
{057}nobles and prelates assembled, and while they were debating thematter, Henry gathered a crowd about him in the street, and eloquentlypleaded his own cause. First he reminded them that he was a bornEnglishman, then he made the most flattering promises, and concluded hisspeech by assuring them that they should have an English queen, and begoverned by English laws. Loud shouts and hurrahs greeted his ears, and"Long live Henry, King of England!" passed from mouth to mouth, until itwas taken up in the council hall itself, and thus, by the voice of thepeople was the succession settled.
On the day after this scene Henry was crowned at Westminster Abbey. Thepromises he made he fully intended to execute, and set about his work ofreform without delay. His popularity increased, and when he made knownhis intention to marry Matilda, a descendant of their beloved KingAlfred, and a girl educated in England, it met with great favor.
He then made a formal proposal for her to her brother, the King ofScotland. But the Abbess Christina was determined not to give her upwithout a struggle, moreover, she was a Saxon, and objected to havingthe Norman line strengthened by such a union, so she declared thatMatilda was a consecrated nun, whom it would be a sacrilege to marry.
Henry did not dare to act in defiance of the church, though he hadresolved on this marriage, so he wrote to the Archbishop of Canterburyasking advice. That prelate refused to decide so important a questionalone, but summoned a council of churchmen, before whom Matilda wasrequested to appear.
This must have been a most embarrassing ordeal for a young girl broughtup in the strict seclusion of a convent, but she was equal to it, andanswered all the questions {058}put to her clearly and intelligibly.They asked her whether she had taken any vows, saying that if so, nomotive could induce them to consent to their being broken. The princessdenied that she had ever done so. The archbishop asked her if she hadnot worn the black veil at her father's court, and subsequently in thenunneries of Rumsey and Wilton.
"I do not deny," she replied, "having worn the veil in my father'scourt, for when I was a child my aunt Christina put a piece of blackcloth over my head; but when my father saw it, he snatched it off ingreat rage, and swore at the person who had put it on me, observing atthe same time that it was his intention to give me in marriage, not todevote me to the church."
Then she told how she had worn the veil for protection at first, andafterwards, because her aunt would beat and scold her whenever she leftit off.
This explanation was considered perfectly satisfactory, and the councilpronounced Matilda free to contract marriage with the king.
Now, although she loved Henry, and certainly had no desire to remainlonger in the convent, yet she hesitated about getting married becauseshe had heard the king was not so good and virtuous as he ought tobe, and she feared to trust her happiness in his keeping. But thoseconnected with the Saxon royal line entreated her with these words: "Omost noble and most gracious of women, if thou wouldst, thou couldstraise up the ancient honor of England, thou wouldst be a pledge ofreconciliation; but if thou refusest, the enmity between the Saxon andNorman races will be eternal; human blood will never cease to flow."
This was a strong argument in favor of her marriage. She was to become abond of peace to a divided nation,
{059}
[Illustration: 0063]
{061}and she ceased to object when Henry promised to be a constitutionalmonarch, and observe the laws and privileges established by Alfred.
Three years and six months after his coronation Henry and Matilda weremarried, and the latter was crowned at Westminster. Before performingthe ceremony, the archbishop stood up in the pulpit, and related thewhole history of the princess's life, because he wanted to leave no roomfor doubt that she was justified in getting married. He then asked ina loud tone whether anybody present had an objection to raise. Alldeclared that the matter was rightly settled.
This marriage proved one of the happiest events for the English nation,for the queen's thoughts were always for the common people, and sheurged her husband to grant them all their rights and privileges. One ofhis first acts was to abolish the curfew at her request, for she saidthat everybody ought to be permitted to sit up and enjoy an evening chatjust as long as they pleased.
Henry's Anglo-Saxon subjects soon became so warmly attached to him, thatthey were anxious to show him an allegiance which the stern laws ofhis father, or of the Red King, never could have forced from them.They loved the queen also, because they knew that a great deal of theirhappiness was the result of her good influence.
[Illustration: 0065]
{062}



CHAPTER IV.
|The royal couple lived at Westminster, in the palace of Edward theConfessor, and Matilda devoted much of her time to the care of the sickand the needy. She was so strict concerning her religious duties, thatevery day in Lent she went to Westminster Abbey barefooted and clothedin a garment of haircloth. Then she would wash and kiss the feet of thepoorest people. One day a courtier reproved her for it, but she replied,as the following curious dialogue, taken from a rhyming chronicle of theday, will show,--
               "Madam, for God's love is this well ado
               To handle such unclean limbs and to kiss so?
               Foul would the king think if this thing he wist,
               And right well avile him ere he your lips kist."
               "Sir, sir!" quoth the queen, "be still. Why say you so?
               Our Lord himself example gave for to do so."
On another occasion, her brother, the King of Scotland, who was on avisit to the English court, entered Matilda's apartments, and found heron her knees washing the feet of some old beggars. She looked up,and asked him if he would not assist her in this work of charity andhumiliation, for the good of his soul. His majesty smiled and left theroom without making any reply. Perhaps as he had never had any practicein that sort of labor he feared that he might not be able to perform itskilfully, or it may be that he did not care to encourage his sisterin the humility which she seemed inclined to carry to excess. How-{063}ever, Matilda's good works were not all directed in one channel,for she tried to benefit every class of her subjects, the rich aswell as the poor. Once when she was obliged to cross the river Leaon horseback, the tide was so high that she ran great danger of beingdrowned, so she caused a fine arched bridge to be built high up thestream. The Saxons called it the Bow Bridge. Then she built more ofthese structures, and to insure their being kept in good repair, shepresented a mill or dwelling-house to those whom she selected to attendto them.
She planned new roads and repaired old ones, thus facilitating travelthrough the wild, uncultivated parts of the country, so that in timemerchants could cross the desolate moors with their wares withoutincurring much risk.
All this work was probably done during her husband's absence from homewhen she was regent and could call on the public treasury, for certainlyher private purse could never have enabled her to undergo such a heavyoutlay. But that made no difference to her subjects, for they enjoyedthe benefit of her improvements, and looked upon her as a realbenefactress.
Henry's wise laws did not give universal satisfaction by any means; forthe Norman nobles objected to any check being placed on their actions.They had been used to doing just exactly as they pleased with only theirsweet wills to govern them, and now when they found that they could notcommit crimes and outrages against the lower classes without incurringpunishment of some sort they made great complaints. They could notunderstand why the laws that protected them and their families shouldapply equally to the common people. Their amusements were restrained,and their lawlessness no longer had free play. So they spoke with uttercontempt of "that Saxon woman," as they called Matilda, and actuallywent so far {064}as to apply ridiculous nicknames to the royal couple,before their very faces.
Just two years had passed since their marriage, when Duke Robertreturned from the Holy Land. He determined at once to invade England.Now, as Henry's fleet was manned by Normans, under the influence ofNorman chiefs, they refused to guard the coasts of England againsttheir duke, but went out to meet him, and brought him in triumph toPortsmouth, where he was joined by nearly all the Anglo-Norman nobles,as well as a great many of the English themselves.
Well, Robert marched straight on to Winchester, but with all his faults,he proved himself a true gentleman on this occasion; for when he gotthere he heard that Matilda had a little baby and was ill in bed, so herefused to storm the city.
This consideration on his part pleased the queen so much, that she usedher influence to bring about a reconciliation between her husband andhis brother, and Henry invited Robert to court, where he was feasted andentertained in a sumptuous manner. The queen and her brother-in-law hadone taste in common: they both loved music. It is only a pity that allRobert's fancies were not so refined and harmless.
Poets and minstrels from every part of Europe flocked to Matilda's courtto recite their verses or sing their songs in her presence, and shetook great pains to receive them kindly and make them welcome. The onlyobjection that could be made to this custom, was that it cost too muchmoney, for the queen was exceedingly liberal with her rewards. Robertwas so well pleased with the treatment he received at his brother'scourt, that he prolonged his stay six months, and he and the queenpassed a great deal of time in each other's society singing and{065}studying music; and quite a warm affection grew up between them.
[Illustration: 8069]
[[A.D. 1104.]] The following year the Duke of Normandy visited Englandagain, probably to demand the payment of his pension. As he wasaccompanied by only twelve gentlemen it could scarcely have been hispurpose to raise a revolt. Nevertheless, when Henry heard of his arrivalhe said, "By my faith, should he fall into my hands, I will keep him soclosely imprisoned that he shall never give me any more trouble."
A friend of Robert's heard this remark, and hastened to warn him of hisdanger, advising him to seek the queen's protection, which he was veryglad to do. She spoke kind and comforting words, assuring him that shewould do all in her power to save him from the anger of the king. ButRobert was so alarmed that he scarcely listened to what she said.He declared himself ready to make almost any sacrifice to insure hispersonal safety, and even offered {066}to dispense with the annual sumthe king regularly allowed him for resigning his claim to the throne.
[Illustration: 9070]
When Henry heard this, he sent for the queen to come to him and bringDuke Robert with her. She did so, and the duke thus addressed hisbrother:
"Fair sire, I am come to show you our of affection, and not to injureeither you or yours. We are brothers, born of one father and one mother.If I am the eldest, you have the honor of the crown, which is a muchbetter thing. I love you well, and thus it ought to be. I have givenover to the queen all you owe me for this kingdom. We will be friendsnow and exchange gifts of jewels, dogs, and birds."
The king replied: "We will do as you say, with thanks." Now, one ofRobert's vices was intemperance, which was so great, that he would oftenbe in a state of intoxication for days together. So, not long after hisfriendly speech, when he was under the influence of wine, he accusedHenry of having cheated him out of his pension, by making Matildamislead him with her fair words. Of course, after that there could benothing but bitter and {067}unkind feelings between the royal brothers,and Robert made so many threats, that the king embarked for Normandy,determined to make war on him.
But when he got there, Anselm, the old archbishop, effected areconciliation. Anselm then returned to England and gave Matilda muchpain, by putting in force a plan that he had agreed upon with Henry. Itwas to forbid any of the Anglo-Saxon clergy to marry, and to turn thoseout of the church who were already married. Two hundred of these poorunfortunates stood barefooted in the streets of London, when Henryreturned, begging for compassion. He turned aside, and showed plainlythat they were to look for neither aid nor sympathy from him, while thegood Matilda wept bitterly, saying that "she dared not interfere."
At this time the royal couple had two children, a boy named William, anda little daughter who was placed at Wilton Abbey for care and education.
The Anglo-Normans were so much pleased with the Saxon style of wearingtheir hair, which was in long ringlets flowing to their shoulders, theirmouths and chins covered with it too, that they soon imitated them. Theking especially was remarkable for the beauty of his locks, which hecherished with care, though the Norman clergy highly disapproved of suchvanity.
One day, while Henry was in Normandy, he and his train entered a church,where the bishop began to preach about the sinfulness of this newfashion, saying, "It was a device of the evil one to bring souls intoeverlasting perdition, the moustached, bearded, and long-haired menresembling filthy goats." The discourse was so touching that the Kingof England and his courtiers wept. Then the bishop drew a large pair ofscissors from his sleeve and proceeded to crop off the curls and beardsof his {068}hearers, beginning with Henry, who was anxious to prove thesincerity of his tears. Thus for nearly an hour the church resembled abarber-shop, and afterwards Henry published an edict forever abolishingsuch sinful adornments as ringlets and beards.
After this Henry pursued the war in Normandy, completely conquered thatcountry, and returned in triumph to England with Edgar Atheling, Robert,and four hundred valiant knights as prisoners.
[Illustration: 0072]
He then removed his court to Windsor Castle, which had been completed byMatilda during his absence. It now became necessary for Henry to spendpart of every year in Normandy, as he was ruler of that country as wellas of England.
In 1109 he received an ambassador from the Emperor Henry V., who came tomake a proposal for the hand of the little Princess Matilda, then onlysix years of age. The offer was accepted, but the child was permitted toremain at home until she had reached the mature age of twelve, when shewas married and crowned in the cathedral of Mentz. The little empresswas very kindly treated by {069}her husband, who was forty years hersenior; and she was so amiable and pretty, that she won the hearts ofthe German princes, his sons.
When Prince William was twelve years old, the king took him to Normandy,and presented him, with great pomp, as heir to the duchy. The barons andfreemen swore fealty to him.
The royal family passed the following Christmas at the Abbey of St.Alban's as guests of the Abbot Richard, who invited them, as well as alarge company of prelates and nobles, to assist at the consecration ofthe abbey. In a rich illuminated volume, called the Golden Book ofSt. Alban's, (now in the British Museum,) is a likeness of the queen,evidently made at this time.
In the year 1117, a fresh revolt called Henry to Normandy again, andduring his absence "the Good Queen," whose health had been failing formany months, died. To the last hour of her life she was a beautifulexample of piety and self-denial, and her virtues had made her so dearto her subjects of every class, that she was passionately lamented bythem all. She was buried at Westminster Abbey near her royal uncle,Edward the Confessor.
After her death, her three Saxon maids of honor retired to a hermitagewhere there was a holy well, or medicinal spring, and established aconvent there. They were pious ladies, always ready to bestow alms andrelieve the sick and suffering, and passed the rest of their lives inimitating the charitable, worthy deeds of their royal mistress.
Prince William never returned to England after the death of his mother,but spent much of his time fighting against the King of France, at hisfather's side.
In 1119 he married Alice, daughter of the Earl of Anjou. A year laterhe accompanied his father to Harfleur for the purpose of embarking forEngland. The king set {070}sail the same night, leaving the prince tofollow in the "White Ship" the finest vessel in the Norman navy. Williamwent on board with a gay party of young friends, and ordered three casksof wine to be given to the ship's crew. This was a mistake, for thesailors were, for the most part, intoxicated when they sailed. PrinceWilliam, desiring to overtake the rest of the fleet, ordered his captainto put up all his sails, and the "White Ship" went rushing through thewater with such dangerous speed, that she suddenly struck a rock andbegan to sink. All was terror and confusion. The life-boat was launched,and the young heir of England, with several of his companions, got intoit, and would probably have been able to row back to the Norman shore insafety; but the cries of his half-sister calling on him for assistancereached his ear. He commanded the boat back, and as soon as it nearedthe ship, such numbers sprang into it that it immediately sank. Outof three hundred persons who embarked on the ill-fated vessel only oneescaped to tell the sad tale. This was a poor butcher, who climbed tothe top of the mast, and was rescued next morning by some fishermen.
The report of the disaster reached England next day, but there wasnobody bold enough to carry it to the king, so for three days he wasleft in suspense.
At length his private little page was selected to break the news to thebereaved father. Entering the room with pattering steps and a sorrowfulmien, the child knelt down at Henry's feet and told him of the dreadfulcatastrophe. He sank upon the floor in a swoon, from which he did notrecover for many minutes. In all his life Henry I. was never known tosmile again.
[[A.D. 1120.]] Three years after the death of Queen Matilda he marriedAdelicia of Louvaine, surnamed the Fair Maid of Brabant, a lady ofdistinguished beauty and rare
{071}
[Illustration: 0075]
{073}talent. She occupied the English throne too short a time for us todevote a separate chapter to her reign. She was a good, kind stepmotherto the little Empress Matilda, and took excellent care of her. But shecould not have been very happy as the wife of Henry I., because histroubles made him such a cross, melancholy old man that even hisgreatest nobles were afraid to approach him. He died in Normandy in1135, and three years later Adelicia married William de Albini.
She had seven children after her second marriage, from one of whom bylineal descent were two of the most unfortunate of all the queens ofEngland,--Anna Boleyn and Katherine Howard.
[Illustration: 0077]
{074}



CHAPTER V. MATILDA OF BOULOGNE, QUEEN OF STEPHEN
A.D.1106-1151.
|Matilda of Boulogne was the last of the Anglo-Norman queens, and theonly child of the Count and Countess of Boulogne. She was educated atthe Convent of Bermondsey, which was founded by her mother, but it wasnever intended that she should spend her life there, because, at a veryearly age, she was married to Stephen de Blois, a nephew of Henry I.
Stephen was a handsome, bright, intellectual boy when he went to seekhis fortune at the court of England, and Henry Beauclerc was pleased tohave an opportunity of showing kindness to the son of his sister Adela,Countess of Blois, whom he had always loved very tenderly.
So he knighted the youth, and bestowed upon him the hand of his queen'sniece Matilda, the heiress of Boulogne. After the marriage, the kingpresented the young couple with the Tower-Royal, a strongly fortifiedpalace, which became their London residence.
Stephen had embarked on board the ill-fated Blanche Nef, or White Ship,with his cousin William, but prudently left just before the vesselsailed, saying: "She was too much crowded with foolish, headstrong youngpeople."
After the death of his son William, the king placed his affectionson his nephew, and always liked his companionship in all his voyages.Stephen was a great favorite in {075}England, for he was as affable andagreeable to the poorest and humblest people as he was to the nobles.His wife, too, was daily winning hearts, and when the king's healthbegan to decline, it was fondly hoped that this young couple wouldsucceed him instead of his daughter, the Empress Matilda. And so theydid, for no sooner was King Henry's
[Illustration: 0079]
death announced than Stephen left Normandy, and embarked for Dover,leaving the last rites of his deceased uncle to the care of Robert, Earlof Gloucester.
He hastened on to London in the midst of a terrible thunder-storm, andconvened an assembly of barons, before whom the steward of King Henry'shousehold swore that the late sovereign had disinherited the EmpressMatilda {076}on his deathbed, and named Stephen as his heir. Thereuponthe Archbishop of Canterbury absolved the nobles from the oath of fealtythey had twice sworn to the daughter of their dead king, and Stephen wascrowned without opposition.
This was easily managed, because the Empress Matilda, being the wife ofa foreign prince, was residing on the continent, and therefore out ofthe way. Besides, at the time of her father's death, her husband wasdangerously ill, and she had no thought for anything but the care herequired. When he recovered she determined to remain quiet for awhile towatch the condition of affairs in England.
[[A.D. 1136.]] Meanwhile Queen Matilda had given birth to a son, who wasnamed Eustace, and three months after her husband had claimed the crown,her own coronation took place on Easter Sunday, 1136.
Stephen began his reign by making some wise and popular laws, but hepermitted his nobles to build or fortify over a thousand castles. Thiswas a grave mistake, because the owners of these strongholds could shutthemselves up in them and defy the crown when they chose.
The first sad experience Stephen had in this respect was when the Earlof Devonshire refused to obey him, or to acknowledge his right as king.Stephen proceeded to chastise him, when the King of Scotland, takingadvantage of this disturbance, invaded the northern counties underpretence of revenging the wrongs of his niece, the Empress Matilda,though Queen Matilda stood in the same degree of relationship to him asthe empress did.
Stephen met the King of Scotland with a large army, but Queen Matildainterposed between the two sovereigns, and settled all differenceswithout any bloodshed.
[[A.D. 1137.]] This happy termination of the storm that had beengathering was celebrated by a series of rejoicings, {077}but in themidst of them Stephen was seized with an illness so serious that itresulted in a stupor closely resembling death. It was reported inNormandy that he really had died.
Thereupon the party of the Empress Matilda immediately began to takemeasures to place her on the throne, her husband, the Count of Anjou,entering Normandy at the head of an army to assert her right. ThenStephen's elder brother, Theobold, put in his claim. Meanwhile Stephenrecovered, and no sooner did he see the danger that threatened him,than, leaving his wife to look out for his interests in England, hehastened with his little son to France, and by means of a large bribeinduced King Louis VII. to acknowledge the child's claim to the earldomof Boulogne, which Queen Matilda had bestowed on the child.
During King Stephen's absence some enormous fires occurred in differentparts of England which seemed to be the work of discontented subjects;conspiracies were formed in favor of the Empress Matilda, and, whatwas worst of all, the King of Scotland made another invasion intoNorthumberland. But Queen Matilda showed herself a woman of courage anddetermination, for she actually went in person to fight the insurgents,and kept them at bay until her husband arrived and drove the Scottisharmy back into their own country.
The party that favored the empress had become so powerful by the autumnof 1140 that, had she acted promptly, she would certainly have gainedthe prize she sought. But she did not enter England until Stephen hadtaken possession of the castles as well as of the great wealth of threebishops who had opposed him.
Consequently, when she took up her abode at Arundel Castle, Stephenmight perfectly well have made her his {078}prisoner; but he rememberedwhat a debt of gratitude he owed to her father, and spared her for thesake of his benefactor. When she expressed her desire to remove to theCastle of Bristol, he was even so gallant as to offer his brother, theBishop of Winchester, as escort, and to pledge his word that she shouldnot be molested by the way.
[Illustration: 0082]
The Earl of Gloucester was still fighting for his sister's rights whenQueen Matilda went, with her son Eustace, to France for the purpose ofstrengthening her husband's cause by the aid of her foreign relations.While there, a {079}marriage was negotiated between Constance, sister ofLouis I., and little Eustace, who was just four years old.
Matilda was still in France when the battle of Lincoln, so disastrous toStephen's cause, was fought.
[Illustration: 0083]
It happened that Stephen had shut up a number of the Empress Matilda'spartisans and their families when he besieged the town of Lincoln; amongthese was the Earl of Gloucester's youngest daughter, who had recentlymarried her cousin, the Earl of Chester. So determined were the fatherand husband to liberate her, that, with all their followers, theyswam across the river Trent, behind which Stephen and his army thoughtthemselves safely encamped, and fiercely attacked him in their drippinggarments.
Stephen fought desperately, until he was left almost alone on thefield, when a stout knight seized him and led him captive before theEmpress Matilda, who ordered him into close confinement in BristolCastle.
Then the Empress Matilda made her public entry into the city ofWinchester, where she was received in state by Stephen's brother, thebishop of that place, who excommunicated all those who adhered to theimprisoned king, {080}and promised absolution to all those who joinedthe cause of the empress.
At this melancholy juncture Queen Matilda returned from France. She atonce made a personal appeal to the citizens of London, with whom shehad always been popular, and so readily did they listen to her complaintthat they demanded the liberation of the king. But her brother-in-law,Henry de Blois, the Bishop of Winchester, paid no attention to thedemand; he even refused to have Queen Matilda's address to the Synodin behalf of her husband read aloud, and boldly declared the EmpressMatilda sovereign of England.
[Illustration: 0084]
Then Queen Matilda made a pathetic appeal to this haughty, arrogantwoman in behalf of Stephen, who remained, heavily ironed, in prison. Sheassured the empress that the loss of power was of little moment; all sheasked was that her husband might be set at liberty. She even proposedthat if her life were spared, and her son were permitted to enjoy theEarldom of Boulogne, she would enter a convent, her husband a monastery,and promised that both would forever forego all claim to the crown ofEngland.
{081}
[Illustration: 0085]
{083}This petition, as well as all the others that King Stephen's wifehad made to the cruel empress, was rejected with contempt. But thedevoted wife was not to be baffled when working for her husband's lifeand pardon, so taking advantage of a misunderstanding that arose betweenthe Bishop of Winchester and the empress, she induced that prelateto absolve all those of her husband's party whom he had previouslyexcommunicated, and to aid her in the deliverance of his brother.
Then, in the name of her son, Prince Eustace, she raised the standardof the captive king in Kent and Surrey, and a strong army was soonorganized in her support.
Meanwhile the empress had become exceeding unpopular, and when thecitizens of London found that she proposed to treat them as a conquerednation, which her demand for a subsidy proved, they asked leave todeliberate.
The empress retired to her palace of Westminster, where she awaited thearrival of a deputy with the bags of gold she felt sure they would send.Suddenly the bells of London rang out an alarm, and every man inthe city and its vicinity came out of his house carrying a sword. Aformidable army soon collected, ready to dispute any unjust demand forsubsidies, and proceeded to the palace.
But the empress, with her barons and chevaliers, had made good theirescape on horseback, and were far on the road to Oxford when the mobbroke open the doors of the palace.
The King of Scotland was with his niece, but he was so disgusted withher behavior that he made the best of his way to his own borders. By thetime the empress reached Oxford, all of her train had deserted exceptingthe Duke of Gloucester, with whom she entered the city alone.
With a large army ready to support her, Queen Matilda {084}now returnedto London, where she was received by the populace with open arms. Hernext step was to go with her son to the Bishop of Winchester and entreathim to assist her in once more placing her husband on the throne.
He promised to do so, and urged the queen to put herself at the head ofher army and march to Winchester. At her approach, the prelate retiredto his castle in the suburbs, and a blockade was established that madethe empress tremble in her palace. No doubt, during the two months offamine and warfare that succeeded, she regretted more than once thescorn with which she had repulsed her cousin's humble appeal. At last,when at least twenty-five churches and monasteries had been destroyed,and the empress knew that her position was becoming daily moredangerous, she prevailed on her brother, the Duke of Gloucester, toassist her to escape. He and the King of Scotland attempted to do so byforcing their way through the besiegers.
The Duke of Gloucester fought bravely, but was compelled to surrender atlast, when he was made captive and conducted before Queen Matilda. TheKing of Scotland escaped with the empress, and got as far as Devizes,where the queen's soldiers pursued them so closely that they wouldcertainly have been captured but for a stratagem to which the empresswas compelled to resort for safety. She had herself rolled in awinding-sheet, and placed in a coffin, and was in this manner carriedon the shoulders of some of her faithful partisans to the fortress ofGloucester, which belonged to her brother. There she was deposited atlast, after many hours of travel, worn out with fasting and terror.
[[A.D. 1141.]] The Duke of Gloucester was so necessary to his party,that the empress opened communication with Queen Matilda to effect hisrelease. But the only terms
{085}
[Illustration: 0089]
{087}to which the devoted wife would listen, were those that wouldsecure the restoration of her husband. Consequently, after manypropositions had been made on one side and rejected on the other, andafter Queen Matilda had threatened severe measures against Gloucester,the illustrious prisoners were exchanged. This important event tookplace in November, 1141.
Stephen had another attack of his old malady soon after his release, buthe recovered with the tender care bestowed upon him by his loving wife,and then entered the field again, determined to fight more desperatelythan ever.
Then the party of the empress thought they would claim the assistanceof her husband, the Count of Anjou, for which purpose the Duke ofGloucester was despatched to Normandy. Before leaving England, however,he saw his sister established at the Castle of Oxford, where he feltperfectly certain of her safety.
But Stephen was so bent upon capturing the empress that he laid siege tothe fortress she occupied and reduced her to such distress for want ofprovisions that she escaped one night with only four attendants. Thefugitives dressed themselves from head to foot in white, and as theground was all covered with snow, they moved noiselessly and unnoticedalong, protected by the banks of snow and ice along the Thames, througha blinding storm that flew full in their faces. When at a safe distancefrom the castle, they walked faster, over hedges and ditches, until theyreached a town six miles off, where they obtained horses and rode on toWallingford the same night.
There the empress met her brother, who had just returned from Normandy.The Count of Anjou had not seen fit to comply with the request of hiswife's party for assistance, but compromised by sending Prince Henry tosee his mother, keeping their other child, Geoffrey, with {088}him.He was evidently not anxious to see her himself. Three years later thecount sent a train of Norman nobles to England to reclaim his heir. TheDuke of Gloucester accompanied his nephew part of the way, and thenbade him farewell forever; for he died in October, 1147. Deprived of thesupport of this true-hearted brother, the Empress Matilda abandoned hopeand left England, nearly all of her friends having deserted her.
Stephen and Matilda were so delighted at the departure of the empress,and the establishment of peace, that they celebrated the followingChristmas with unusual splendor, and prevailed upon some of the baronsto swear fealty to their son, Eustace, then thirteen years old, andacknowledge him as heir-apparent to the throne.
In 1148, Queen Matilda founded and endowed the Church of St. Katherine,by the tower; also the Royal Abbey of Feversham in Kent. Then shespent a few months quietly at the convent. But her health had begun todecline, and she died of a fever on the 3d of May, 1151, at the age offorty-seven.
She was buried at the new abbey of Feversham, and was deeply lamentedby all who knew her. About three years later Stephen was laid beside hisbeloved queen.
[Illustration: 0092]
{089}



CHAPTER VI. ELEANORA OF AQUITAINE, QUEEN OF HENRY II.
(A.D. 1134-1204.)
|Eleanora was born in the beautiful province of Aquitaine, a name thatJulius Caesar gave to the south of Gaul on account of its numerousrivers and fine ports. The people liked the name and adopted it; but itwas really the ancient kingdom of Provence.
Eleanora and her sister Petronilla were daughters of William, Count ofPoitou, such a good, pious man,'that as he happened to be in the HolyLand at the time of his death, he was forever after called St. William.
The grandfather of these girls was William IX., not a very good man, buta learned one, and an excellent poet. The most polished and civilizedpeople on the face of the earth in the 12th and 13th centuries were tobe found in Provence, and their language, which was a mixture of Frenchand Italian, was particularly adapted for poetry and music. This is nodoubt the reason why there were so many minstrels in that country, whowandered about from one nobleman's house to another, singing their songsand reciting their poems.
William IX. was a troubadour, and his compositions were so popular thatthey became models for all the others. He was the most powerful princein all Europe, but as he advanced in years his conscience began totrouble him, and {090}he thought he must reform before it was too late.So, when Eleanora was about fourteen years of age, he ap> pointed herruler of Aquitaine in his place, assembled all the nobles of the land,and made them take an oath of allegiance to her, because, as he toldthem, he wished to occupy himself with spiritual matters.
[Illustration: 9094]
This done, he planned a marriage between Eleanora and the son of LouisVI. of France. The young people had no objections to offer, and theywere married at Bordeaux without delay.
[[A.D. 1137.]] As soon as they were crowned Duke and Duchess ofAquitaine, William IX. laid aside his royal robes forever. Attired in ahermit's gown, he started on a pilgrimage to Spain, and passed severalyears in different caves in the gloomy, rocky wilderness, where he endedhis days.
Now, Eleanora was a great heiress, because all the rich territory thather grandfather had owned passed into her possession.
Afterwards, young Louis was crowned Duke of Guienne, when he and hisyouthful bride were summoned to France to attend the death-bed of hisfather, Louis VI., the good king and wise law-maker. His dying wordswere: "Remember, royalty is a public trust, for the exercise of
{091}
[Illustration: 0095]
{093}which a rigorous account will be exacted by Him who has the soledisposal of crowns and sceptres."
Louis was impressed by these words, but they had little weight with thethoughtless Eleanora. She was beautiful and accomplished, but seemedto think that the chief object in life was enjoyment. She was a finemusician, and wrote some beautiful poetry, which she set to music. Theseverses were remembered and sung long after she had ceased to live, whichproves that they must have had considerable merit.
Eleanora's southern subjects adored her, and were dreadfully grievedwhenever she had to leave them to return to her court at Paris. Shepreferred to stay among them, too, because, as she had entire controlof affairs in the south, all was life and fun there, while her husband'spalace was under such rigid rule that it was almost like a convent.
She gave festivals in Provence, called "Courts of Love," that werevery popular among her subjects. On such occasions she, with herladies-in-waiting, would receive all the troubadours who chose to comewith their new poems and songs. The ladies would hear them, and thenpronounce sentence upon them, and as Eleanora was a very accomplishedpoetess, her judgment was considered of great value.
She could not induce her husband to take part in these amusements, yetshe had considerable influence oyer him, which, unfortunately, onceled him to commit an act of great injustice. It was on account of hersister, Petronilla, whose beauty was equal to her own, and whose senseof right was sadly wanting. This princess happened to fall in lovewith a certain young count, whose affection she was determined to have,although he was a married man. So she and Eleanora put their headstogether and planned, {094}until they brought about a divorce betweenthe count and his wife for some trifling excuse. Then Petronilla marriedhim. But the former wife had a brother, the Count of Champagne, whowould not stand such treatment towards his sister, so he laid the matterbefore the pope, who commanded the divorced count to leave his new wifeimmediately and take back the former one. This so enraged Eleanora thatshe persuaded her husband to punish the Count of Champagne. Louis, whohad another cause of offence against this man, did not need much urging,and invaded his country at the head of a large army. They destroyedright and left until they came to the town of Vitry, which they beganto storm; thirteen hundred of the terrified inhabitants rushed to thecathedral and locked themselves in for safety. The building was set onfire by the besiegers, and every soul w'as burned to death. Aboutthis period the eloquent St. Bernard came to Burgundy and preachedthe crusade. Such crowds of people flocked to hear him that they wereobliged to meet in the market place, for there was no church in the townnearly large enough to contain them. King Louis and Queen Eleanorawere present also, and the saint spoke so eloquently, and in such harshtones, about the burning of the Vitry cathedral that they both felt veryrepentant. The king resolved to atone for the horrible deed by going tothe Holy Land to fight for the Christian cause. That was all very well,and one can only admire him for such a resolution. But the queen vowedthat she would accompany her lord, and lead her southern forces inperson. This was a silly determination for a woman, and the excellentAbbot Suger tried to persuade her to give up all idea of such a wildexpedition, but she had made up her mind to become a female crusader,and no argument could change her. Throughout her life, she was weakwhere she ought to have been
{095}
[Illustration: 0099]
{097}strong, and determined where timidity would have been, by far, morebecoming and womanly. The king did not oppose her crusade; but even ifhe had, she would have forced him to yield to her will.
She received the holy cross from the hand of St. Bernard, andimmediately put on the dress of an Amazon and mounted a horse. All thecourt ladies did the same, calling themselves the queen's body-guard.Then they formed in parade every day, and practised military exercise inpublic, making themselves as ridiculous as possible. In short, they werea band of madwomen, and nobody could control them. When once they hadbecome Amazons they abandoned all womanly occupations, consequently hadno use for their distaffs; these they sent to all the knights and nobleswho kept out of this insane expedition. Thus, many of them being tooweak to stand such a taunt, were actually shamed into joining thoughtheir good sense opposed it.
King Louis managed his difficult enterprise with a good deal of courageand prudence, but it would have required a greater general than theworld has ever known to discipline a regiment of fantastic women. Thefreaks of these female warriors were the cause of all the misfortunesthat befell the army, for the king, after landing in Thrace, sent themforward with his choicest troops, and told them exactly how to choosetheir camp so that they would overlook the valley of Laodicea. Heremained about five miles behind with the baggage, of which there was alarge supply, and had to stop frequently to fight the bands of Arabs whoattacked him.
Instead of obeying her husband's directions, Queen Eleanora insistedthat her part of the army should halt in a lovely valley, full ofgrass and flowers. This inviting spot caught her fancy, and militarydiscipline became of secondary importance to her. {098}It was almostnight when the king approached the valley; he could not distinguish histroops on the elevated ground where they ought to have been, and knewnot what to make of it. The queen was not encamped there, that wascertain, so there was nothing for him to do but to enter the valley insearch of her. Soon after he was attacked from the hills by swarms ofArabs, and had to move in and out among the rocks to dodge them. Atone time he barely escaped with his life by climbing a tree, whence hefought desperately. It was daylight before he discovered the troops thathe had sent in advance. During the night seven thousand Frenchsoldiers had been killed, the provisions had been cut off, the baggage,containing all the fine clothing of the lady warriors, had beenplundered by the Arabs, and the whole army was in great distress.Fortunately, Eleanora had an uncle living near by; his name was PrinceRaymond, and he was the handsomest man of his time. He threw open hisfriendly gates to the defeated French army, and they were glad to restand refresh themselves after all the hardships they had endured. Theuncle and niece met for the first time, and were so charmed with eachother that Louis soon became jealous; so one night he hurried his wifeoff without taking leave of his polite host. This made Eleanora so angrythat when they arrived at Jerusalem she did nothing but grumble andcomplain. Most pilgrims had their piety aroused on this holy ground, butit was not so with Eleanora; she wanted to get home, and quarrelled withher husband for keeping her there. In fact, she never forgave him forforcing her away from her uncle's agreeable company, and from that timeall affection w'as at an end between this royal couple Eleanora was notwilling to submit to restraint of any sort, and her husband's temper wasso tried that he resolved to have a divorce. So, on his return to Paris,he consulted {099}his confidant, the Abbot Suger, about this matter.That worthy man advised him to wait; because, he argued, that it wouldbe troublesome for France to have to give up the money Eleanora'sprovinces in the south yielded; besides Louis' daughter, the PrincessMarie, would probably be deprived of her inheritance if her mothershould take it into her head to marry again.
Louis accepted this advice, but he had his wife closely watched, andwould not allow her to go to Provence at all. She complained of thestupid life she led in Paris, and made great fun of her husband forwearing plain clothing and keeping his head and beard closely cropped,which she declared made him look more like a priest than a king.
Well, in time another princess was born, and named Alice. Soon afterthis event Henry Plantagenet visited Paris. He was a noble-looking youngprince, full of energy and very intellectual.
[[A.D. 1151.]] Eleanora fell so desperately in love with him thatwithout hesitation or advice she applied for a divorce from Louis,and got it. No doubt the king was glad to be rid of such an undutiful,unwomanly wife, though he did have to give up all control over hissouthern provinces, even Guienne.
Eleanora went straight to her favorite home, where Henry Plantagenetfollowed her. He was probably not so very much in love with her, for shewas twelve years his senior, but he needed her money and her ships tofight King Stephen, and lay claim to the throne of England, which he didduring the first year of their marriage.
He returned in triumph, and was besieging the castle of a rebel dukein Normandy when the news of Stephen's death reached him. For six weeksEngland was without a king, until Eleanora and Henry arrived with theiryoung son. They were crowned at Westminster Abbey in 1154, {100}and sucha magnificent coronation had never been seen. The costumes of costlysilk and brocade worn on that occasion had been brought by Eleanora fromConstantinople. In one of her portraits she wears a close coif, or hood,over which is a band of precious stones; a rich brocade gown is fastenedwith full gathers just below the throat, and confined there with acostly collar of exquisite gems. Over this is an outer robe, or pelisse,bordered with fur, the large sleeves of which fall open from theshoulder, displaying the tight ones of the gown beneath. In someportraits her hair is braided and wound closely around her head withjewelled bands, and over this is a piece of fine gauze, which could beso arranged as to serve the double purpose of veil or bonnet, just asthe wearer chose.
Before marriage, the girls of that time wore their hair in longringlets, but the church required married ladies to conceal their locks.After Henry I. cut off his curls, and forbade his courtiers to weartheir hair long, they adopted wigs, but Henry II. abolished them,and appeared at his coronation with short hair and shaven chin. Hisdalmatica, or long gown, was of the richest brocade with elaborate goldembroidery; over this he wore the short cloak afterwards called thecourt-mantle. This coronation introduced into England the sumptuousrobes of silk and velvet worn by the ecclesiastics there on thatoccasion. The queen's first residence in England was at a little villagenearly opposite to London, and she must have been struck with thegrandeur of that remarkable city, with its tower, its tall spires, andthe river Thames running through it, so different from anything she hadever seen before.
Now, although she did not please her new subjects, who were acquainted,of course, with her former behavior, they felt the advantage of beingconnected with her Aquitainian dominion, and in a few months largefortunes were {101}made by the London traders in the wines imported fromthe port of Bordeaux.
[Illustration: 8105]
One of the queen's country residences was at Woodstock, where rather apeculiar incident occurred. She was resting in the park, concealed bythe shrubbery, one day when the king passed so close to her that sheobserved a thread of silk tightly twisted into his spur. She wonderedwhere he could have been to have picked up such a thing, so, as he movedoff, she cut it, and resolved to ferret out the mystery. Next day heleft Woodstock for a long journey, and the queen immediately thoughtthat now was her time to gratify her curiosity. So she sought the pieceof silk, which proved to be the end of a ball, and followed itswindings among the roads and thickets until she came to a door cunninglyconcealed by a luxuriant vine. This she opened, and found it to be theentrance to a winding path under ground. A few minutes' walk brought herto a bower at the further end of the forest, in which sat an exceedinglypretty young girl embroidering. "Aha!" thought the lady, "now we knowwhere Henry gets his spurs caught in balls of silk."
This girl was Rosamond Clifford, who was said to have been a playmateof Henry's in his youth, and as she was kept a prisoner, it is probablethat she did not know of his marriage until his wife informed her of it.At all events, nobody ever heard what took place at this interview,but it is certain that, in obedience to the queen's commands, Rosamondentered the convent of Godstowe, where she passed the remaining twentyyears of her life.
II. fancied himself about to die, he left dominions to all his sonsexcepting this one.
[Illustration: 9106]
Little Matilda was three years old when she was married to Henry theLion, Duke of Saxony.
A revolt in the south of France caused Eleanora's return, because hersubjects there insisted on having her to rule them. King Henry escortedher to Bordeaux, where she stayed with her son Richard.
{103}
[Illustration: 0107]
[[A.D. 1156.]] {102} Shortly after this adventure, the Princess Matildawas born, and a year later the celebrated Richard Cour de Lion came intothe world. In course of time, Queen Eleanora had several other children,among whom was John, surnamed Lackland, because once, when Henry{105}Great disputes had been going on in England for a long timebetween the church and state, headed by Thomas  Becket, the celebratedArchbishop of Canterbury. Prince Henry was so devoted to this priest,who had been his tutor, that the king became jealous of the influenceexerted by Becket over the mind of his son. In order to change thecurrent of the prince's thoughts, the father offered him a share in thegovernment of his kingdom. This was gladly accepted, and young Henrywas crowned. But he had a perverse little wife, Marguerite, daughter ofLouis VII., who was fond of Becket, too, and she vowed that she wouldwear no crown that had not been placed on her head by that fascinatingprelate; so she remained with her mother-in-law at Aquitaine.
King Henry met with so much opposition at the hands of Becket that hebecame enraged at the very sight of that priest. Once, when he wasthe subject of conversation among his knights, Henry asked, angrily,"whether no man loved him enough to revenge the affronts he perpetuallyreceived from an insolent priest?"
[[A.D. 1171.]] Four armed men instantly proceeded to the cathedral, andslaughtered the archbishop while he was kneeling before the altar inprayer.
When this happened Eleanora was still in the south with her son Richard,who had been crowned Count of Poitou. Suddenly she chanced to hear thatHenry was thinking about getting a divorce from her, so she resolved toseek the protection of her former husband, the King of France. Disguisedin male attire, she stole out of the palace at night, and started on herjourney. But Henry had his Norman agents on the spot, and they watchedher so closely that her absence was discovered in time for them toovertake her. They captured her very roughly, and brought her back toBordeaux, where she was kept in close {106}imprisonment until her lordwas summoned. He remained only a few days in the south, then went backto England with two royal captives, his wife and the young PrincessMarguerite, whom he had not forgiven for scorning the crown he offeredunless it could be consecrated by his enemy, Becket. Now, that he hadher in his power, he resolved to punish her. But after a few months'confinement she was restored to her husband.
Eleanora was not so fortunate, for she was kept a prisoner at the royalpalace of Winchester for nearly sixteen years. During that time therewas no end of strife among her sons. The real mischief-makers were thetroubadours, of whom we have spoken, for with their inspiring war songsthey were constantly urging the princes to battle for one trivial reasonor another, even when they would gladly have been at peace.
It must not be supposed that the queen was unkindly treated atWinchester, for, on the contrary, she received the attention andrespect due to her station. While she was there Louis VII., her divorcedhusband, died; and shortly after, the death of her eldest son, HenryPlantagenet, followed. This was a great sorrow to the royal couple, andHenry mourned with the deep grief of David over Absalom. Still later,their son Geoffrey was killed in a grand tournament in Paris.
In one of her letters to the pope, the queen thus writes about thesebereavements: "The younger king and Geoffrey, Count of Bretagne, bothsleep in the dust, while their most wretched mother is compelled to liveon, though tortured by recollections of the dead.".
In 1189, Henry II. died, and was succeeded by his son Richard I., Courde Lion. About the first act of the new king was to order his mother'srelease, and from a captive Queen Eleanora at once became a sovereign,for the reins
{107}
[Illustration: 0111]
{109}of government were placed in her hands as regent. Her longconfinement must have had a good effect on her, for she went about, fromcity to city, releasing all the poor people that her husband had cruellylocked up for violating the Norman game laws, and spent her whole timein acts of mercy and charity. Richard was crowned in 1189, but, as hismother's mourning prevented her being present on that occasion, no womenwere admitted at all.
The king then settled a most liberal revenue on his mother, and she wentto Aquitaine, the government of which was also restored to her. Butshe did not stay there; her old age was passed in England, whereshe assisted her son in governing, and made him, as well as herself,exceedingly popular.
Eleanora of Aquitaine is among the very few women who, after anill-spent youth, have become wise and benevolent in old age. But she hada great deal more trouble to bear before her death. Her life exhibitsmany traces of a great ruler. If she had only been blessed in herearly days with a good, moral education, she would have been one ofthe greatest women of her time. Slowly and surely she learned the sternlesson of life, which teaches that without virtue, power, beauty androyalty are of slight avail.
[[A.D. 1204.]] She was a very old woman when she retired to a convent,where she spent many months previous to her death, which occurred in1204. She was buried by the side of Henry II., and on her tomb is areclining statue said to be a good portrait of herself. The features arenoble and intellectual. On the head is a hood, above which is a regaldiadem; and a blue mantle, figured with silver crescents, is foldedgracefully about her form. {110}



CHAPTER VII. BERENGARIA OF NAVARRE, QUEEN OF RICHARD I.
A.D. 1165-1230.
|Richard Cour de Lion first met the beautiful, accomplished Berengariaat a tournament, and fell desperately in love with her; but,unfortunately, he was at that time engaged to Alice of France, so couldnot offer his hand to the Provenal princess.
Both Sancho the Wise, King of Navarre, Berengaria's father, and Sanchothe Strong, her brother, were poets of considerable merit, and earlycame under the notice of Richard, who was not only a troubadour poet,but as sovereign of Aquitaine, he was, besides, the prince and judgeof all the troubadours. Between him and Berengaria's brother a warmfriendship was formed in early youth, strengthened by their similarityof tastes.
It was not until after his father's death that Richard was at liberty tomarry the Princess Berengaria, to whom he had been secretly engagedfor several years. So she was about twenty-six years old when Richardascended the throne of England. He at once sent his mother, QueenEleanora, to the court of Sancho the Wise to demand the princess inmarriage.
The royal father was much pleased, and placed his daughter in chargeof the queen without hesitation. The two ladies set out together andtravelled as far as Naples, where ships awaited them in the bay. But theprincess
{111}
[Illustration: 0115]
{113}would not join her lover until he had broken off his engagementwith Alice; so she spent the spring of 1191 at Brindisi with his mother.At last a message came from Richard announcing that he was free tomarry, then his lady-love returned to France with his sister, QueenJoanna, in whose charge she had been placed by the queen mother.
While Richard was waiting the arrival of Berengaria, he instituted theorder of Knights of the Blue Thong, to scale the walls of Acre. Theywere twenty-four in number, and were distinguished by a band of blueleather which each wore on his left leg.
[[A.D. 1192.]] It was Lent when Berengaria met her royal lover,therefore their marriage had to be postponed; but so anxious was Richardto begin his crusade, that he set out at once with his knights in hisfavorite ship, which he had named "_Trenc-the-mere_," meaning cutthe sea. His fleet consisted of one hundred and fifty ships and fiftygalleys. Among the latter was one in which Berengaria and Queen Joanna,guarded by a brave knight; accompanied the crusaders.
A dreadful storm drove the galley which contained the queen and princessinto the harbor of Limoussa, the capital of Cyprus, but when IsaacComnenus, the lord of the isle, found out who they were, he brutallyrefused them shelter, and they were obliged to row out of the harbor. Assoon as the gale abated, Richard Cour de Lion, who had found shelter ina harbor of Crete, started in search of his bride. When he beheld hership pitching and tossing in the Bay of Famaguta, he suspected thatsomething had prevented the knight in charge from seeking the protectionso near at hand. Armed, as he was, he jumped into the first boat thatcould be got ready, and when, on reaching the queen's galley, he heardhow the Lord of Cyprus had behaved, his fury knew no bounds.
The Queens of England. {114}Determined to punish the offender at once,Richard led his crusaders straight to Limoussa, and made such a suddenand desperate attack that in a few hours he had captured the town,and all the inhabitants had scampered to the neighboring mountains forshelter.
Then, in response to King Richard's signals, the queen's vessel enteredthe harbor and landed at Limoussa, where grand preparations were soonunder way for the marriage and coronation of the royal pair.
The wedding ceremony was performed in the month of May, 1191, and KingRichard gave a grand feast, to which he invited the people of Cyprus.
On that occasion Berengaria wore a richly-embroidered robe of velvetand satin. Her dark hair fell in curls, over which hung a full long laceveil, fastened to a crown studded with rich jewels.
King Richard wore a short rose-colored satin skirt, with a brocadedmantle embroidered in silver. A richly jewelled Damascus sword hung athis side, and on his head he wore a scarlet hood, brocaded in gold withfigures of animals. He had a bright complexion, and curly, yellow hair,and' his figure was a perfect model of manly grace and strength.
The people of Cyprus had been so tyrannized over by Isaac Comnenus thatthey gladly consented to receive Richard for their king; therefore, bythe advice of all the crusaders who had witnessed his marriage, he wascrowned King of Cyprus, and his bride Queen of England and Cyprus.
Then the daughter of the despot, Isaac, threw herself at King Richard'sfeet and asked for mercy. He kindly raised her from the ground and senther to his wife and sister, with whom she remained until the end of thecrusade. Her father was bound in silver chains and presented to QueenBerengaria as her captive.
{115}
[Illustration: 0119]
{117}Once more the fleet set sail for Palestine, and when Richardappeared' before Acre, the whole army of Christians, already assembledthere, marched to the beach to welcome him.
The town was soon taken, and before proceeding further, Richardestablished his wife and sister in safe quarters there, under theprotection of a couple of brave knights, to await his return.
King Richard distinguished himself by many brave deeds during his Syriancampaign, and captured several important towns, but Jerusalem did notfall into his hands. Once he was in sight of that coveted city, when theDuke of Burgundy, who commanded the French forces, suddenly drew backwith his whole division when victory seemed certain, because he wouldnot have it said that the King of England had taken Jerusalem. This act,which was prompted by envy, was a serious blow to Richard, who, throwingdown his weapon, said, with tears in his eyes and his hands raised toheaven:--
"Ah! Lord God, I pray thee that I may never see thy holy city,Jerusalem, since I have failed to deliver it from the hands of thineenemies."
He returned to Acre in 1192, and, after spending a few days with hiswife and sister, saw them embark for home on the very day he himself setout in the disguise of a Templar to return across Europe by a differentroute.
His vessel was wrecked off the coast of Istria, and his ignorance ofgeography led him to the neighborhood of Vienna, the capital of hisenemy, Leopold of Austria.
One day, after several narrow escapes, he sent a page to make somepurchases at a village near Vienna. The boy was recognized by an officerwho had been in the late crusade with Leopold's troops. He was seized,and after suffering much cruelty, confessed where he had left his{118}master. A party of soldiers set out for the inn designated, butcould not find King Richard. The landlord said, on being questioned:"No, there is no stranger here, unless it be the Templar in the kitchen,who is turning the fowls which are roasting for dinner."
The Austrian officer, accompanied by his soldiers, proceeded at once tothe kitchen, recognized the king, who sure enough was busily turning thespit, and cried: "There he is. Seize him!"
Cour de Lion started up and fought desperately for liberty, but he wasonly one man against a dozen, who captured him and carried him in chainsbefore Leopold.
He was forthwith locked up in a gloomy prison, where he remained formany months, no one knowing whether he was alive or dead.
Meanwhile Berengaria and Joanna had landed at Naples and proceeded toRome, where they remained six months. While there, Berengaria saw a beltof jewels offered for sale that she knew Richard had worn when he partedfrom her. This convinced her that something dreadful had happened tohim, but she had no means of finding out the truth, and as soon as shecould get a safe escort she journeyed on until she arrived at Poitou.
As time went on, poor Richard fancied himself forgotten, and bitterlylamented because he had no friend nor relation who loved him enough torescue him. But he was wrong, for as soon as his mother heard of hiscaptivity she spared no pains nor money to obtain his release. It wasa long time, though, before the exact spot of his imprisonment could beascertained, and this is how it happened, after many months: A certaintroubadour knight who had been with Richard when he was shipwreckedat Istria, having heard of his captivity, wandered around through thesouthern cities of Germany in search of him. One day he
{119}
[Illustration: 0123]
{121}stood beneath the tower that formed Richard's prison, and sang asong that he and the king had composed together. When he finished thefirst stanza, the prisoner replied with the second; then the troubadourhastened with all speed to Queen Eleanora with the discovery he hadmade.
She took immediate measures for her son's release, and with theassistance of the pope, to whom she made a most pathetic appeal, a largeransom was collected, with which the devoted mother set out for Germany.
[[A.D. 1195.]] After an absence of more than four years, Richard arrivedin England in company with Queen Eleanora.
During his imprisonment, John, his younger brother, had tried topossess himself of the crown of England. It was the mother who preventedanything so disgraceful, and who kept all Richard's dominions intact,and it was she who proudly sat beside her brave son at his secondcoronation, which took place in his own country.
Berengaria remained in France, and Richard was not at all anxious tojoin her there, or to have her with him. The reason for this remarkableconduct on the part of a husband is that on his return to EnglandRichard had been met by his former bachelor friends, into whose way ofliving he fell, much to the disgust of the more sober of his subjects.He drank with them to excess, and led such a gay, bad life, thatBerengaria could not join him.
At last he became alarmingly ill, and began to repent of his neglect ofhis wife; but he knew that she was justly displeased with him, and didnot dare to approach her. So he assembled at his bedside all the monkswithin ten miles and publicly confessed his sins, vowing that if QueenBerengaria would forgive him he would never forsake her again.
A few months later he went to France and became {122}reconciled to hiswife. It was a year of famine and of suffering among the poor, and thequeen used her newly-restored influence over the heart of Richard topersuade him to many acts of charity that preserved the lives of anumber of families. The Christmas of the year 1196, which occurredshortly after the king's arrival in France, was celebrated in grandstyle.
Berengaria accompanied her husband in all his campaigns after that, andnever left him during the remaining three years of his life.
It was when Richard was storming the Castle of Chaluz, in April, 1199,that an arrow pierced his breast and caused his death. He was buried atthe Abbey of Fontevraud.
Queen Berengaria went to live at Mans, where she founded the Abbey ofL'Espan, and devoted her life to deeds of charity.
She lived to an advanced age, and was buried at the abbey she hadfounded.
She deserves to be remembered as a Queen of England who was never inthat country, and as a woman possessed of many noble virtues.
[Illustration: 0126]
{123}



CHAPTER VII. ISABELLA OF ANGOULEME, QUEEN OF KING JOHN.
(A.D. 1185-1246.)
|John ascended the throne of England on the death of his brother,Richard Cour de Lion, and it was at a festival given to him at Angoulemethat he first made the acquaintance of Isabella, who afterwards becamequeen.
[[A.D. 1200.]] She was just fifteen years old and so beautiful that KingJohn fell madly in love with her. She was engaged to Hugh de Lusignan atthe time, but her parents were so ambitious for her to be raised to thelofty position of Queen of England, that they kept her with them afterthe festival instead of allowing her to return to the Castle of Valence,the possession of her betrothed, where she had been living under theprotection of the Count of Eu, his brother.
Isabella really loved Hugh de Lusignan, but she was dazzled by thesplendor of the triple crown of England, Normandy and Aquitaine, and,as her lover was absent, she denied that she had ever consented to marryhim.
According to the feudal laws of the thirteenth century, King John,as ruler of Aquitaine, had the power to prevent any marriage that theProvenale princess might contract, if he chose, and to deprive her ofher inheritance besides.
So, when King John and Isabella were married, in the month of August,1200, Count Hugh dared not interfere to prevent it. But he challengedthe king to mortal combat. {124}The reply he got was that if he wishedto fight a champion should be appointed for that purpose, but he wasindignant at such a proposition and determined to await an opportunityfor revenge.
Isabella sailed with her husband for England, where she was duly crownedby the Archbishop of Canterbury. Six months of feasting and enjoymentsucceeded, which were only terminated at last by rumors of war.
Thereupon, King John retired with his wife to Rouen, where he led such alife of indolent ease as to excite the displeasure of all who surroundedhim.
His mother, the aged Eleanora, was then residing at the Castle ofMirabel in Poitou, and was the ruler of Aquitaine. Quite suddenly andunexpectedly her residence was besieged by Hugh de Lusignan, whose planwas to capture the old lady and exchange her only for his lost love.
But Eleanora held out heroically until the arrival of her son John, whomshe had summoned at the first signal of danger.
King John's enemies had reckoned on his character as a sluggard, butthey found their mistake, for when he heard of the attack on his motherhe hastened to Mirabel with lightning speed, hemmed in Count Hugh andDuke Arthur of Bretagne, who had joined him, and took both prisoners.The one was his rival in love, the other in empire.
Count Hugh was subjected to the most insulting treatment at the hands ofthe king, who had him and the other insurgent barons of Poitou chainedhand and foot to carts drawn by oxen. In this manner they were forcedto follow him wherever he went, until he made them embark with him forEngland.
King John was not so cruel to his nephew, Arthur, whom he merely hadlocked up in the citadel of Falaise,
{125}
[Illustration: 0129]
{127}leaving himself the sole representative of the house ofPlantagenet.
[[A.D. 1204.]] In 1204 Queen Eleanora died, and from that moment herson John seemed lost to all sense of decency or fear, and becamemore corrupt and wicked than the most brutal of his subjects. QueenIsabella's influence was no check on his notorious conduct.
In 1206 he entered into a treaty with his prisoner, Hugh de Lusignan,with whose aid he conquered the southern part of France.
On his return to England he made some most unreasonable demands of hisbarons, one of them being the surrender of their children as hostages.Those young nobles who fell into his hands were required to attend thequeen, serve her at meals and follow her at cavalcades and processions.The Lord of Bramber resisted the King's demand, whereupon he, with hiswife and five children, were all shut up in a room at the old Castle ofWindsor and deliberately starved to death.
[[A.D. 1211.]] Queen Isabella had given birth to several children, butthat did not prevent her brutal husband from treating her with extremeharshness. Once, when he fancied that she had a fancy for a certainknight, he had the man assassinated, and his dead body suspended overher bed. Then he shut her up in Gloucester Abbey, where she remaineduntil 1213, when it suited his majesty to take her with him toAngoulme.
King John found himself again in need of Hugh de Lusignan's assistancewhen Philip Augustus of France seized the northern provinces. But thatbrave count refused his aid unless the king would give him his eldestdaughter, Joanna, for a wife. This was a singular request, consideringthat he had once been engaged to the mother, but he was gratified, andthe infant princess was {128}forthwith handed over to him to be broughtup in one of his castles as her mother had been before her. Count Hughsoon cleared the northern provinces of France of the invaders, and thenJohn returned to England to perpetrate new acts of tyranny.
[Illustration: 0132]
[[A.D. 1215.]] After the signing of the Magna Charta, which grantedcertain privileges to all his subjects, King John behaved like a madman,giving way to outbursts of fury, cursing the hour of his birth, andbiting and gnawing sticks and clubs until he reduced them to small bits.The result of several sleepless nights at the fortress of Windsor, thescene of many secret murders, was an expedition to the Isle of Wight,where, after idly sauntering on the beach for days at a time andconversing with the fishermen, he joined a band of pirates with whom hemade attacks on his own subjects. He was gone so long that everybody
{129}
[Illustration: 0133]
{131}hoped he would never return, but, like a bad penny, he turned upat the end of a few weeks, when he was joined by troops from Brabantand Guienne, whom he had summoned to aid him in revenging himself on therebellious barons. This he did by travelling around among them, obligingthem to entertain him, and then turning upon them and doing some damageto their lives or property. It was not uncommon for him to set fire to ahouse in which he had been sheltered over night.
In the midst of this diabolical career, Queen Isabella met her husbandat Marlborough, and after spending a few weeks with him, retired toGloucester with her children.
While she was there, Prince Louis of France made an invasion intoEngland, prompted to the act by the barons, who were so incensed againsttheir sovereign that they offered him the crown if he would come totheir aid.
Then the tormentor tried to escape towards the north, but when hethought to cross the Wash to Lincolnshire, part of his army, hisbaggage, and his splendid regalia were lost, and he barely escaped withhis life. He arrived at Swinshead Abbey ill and in a horrible temper.
With his usual brutality, he gave vent to his spleen by saying, whileeating in the abbot's refectory, "that he hoped to make the half-pennyloaf cost a shilling before the year was over."
This malicious speech was heard by several monks, who, thinking thatJohn's outrages had extended far enough, treated him to a dose of poisonserved in a dish of stewed pears. Ill as he was from the effect ofthe poison, the king insisted on proceeding on his journey, and wastherefore carried on a litter to Newark, where he summoned several monksfor the purpose of confession. It was no trifling matter for this sinfulman to recount all the wrongs of which he had been guilty, but havingaccomplished it, {132}he forgave his enemies and made all the officersabout him swear fealty to his eldest son, Henry. Then he expired, havingleft directions for his burial. As soon as the news
[Illustration: 0136]
of the king's death reached her, Isabella caused Prince Henry tobe proclaimed in the streets of Gloucester, and nine days later sheassisted at his coronation in the cathedral of that place.
{133}
[Illustration: 0137]
[[A.D. 1217.]] {135}Although the young king was only nine years old,his mother was so unpopular that she was not asked to act as regent, andbefore the year of her widowhood had expired, she retired to her nativecity of Angoulme.
The Princess Joanna, then just seven years of age, was still at CountLusignan's castle at Valence, but the count himself was absent on acrusade.
In the year 1220 he returned, and frequently met the mother of hislittle promised bride. The consequence was, that his early love wasrenewed, and as Isabella was still a very handsome woman, only a fewyears younger than himself, she was a much more appropriate mate for himthan Joanna could have been.
So they were married without asking the advice or consent of any one inEngland; consequently Isabella's dower was withheld from her, much tothe indignation of her husband.
Now, it so happened that Henry III. was at war with the King ofScotland, whom his council were anxious to conciliate. They thereforeresolved to offer the king the hand of the little Princess Joanna inmarriage, so when Henry wrote his mother a congratulatory letter on hernuptials, he demanded, at the same time, the restoration of his sister.Isabella refused to give up the princess, because she was highlydispleased at being deprived of her jointure.
Thereupon the young king applied to the pope, who took great pains toinquire into the merits of the case. A voluminous correspondence wascarried on between the contending parties. The King of Scots insistedupon his marriage with Joanna before he would come to terms; the resultwas the payment of all the money due to Queen Isabella in exchange forher daughter.
The King of France was the liege-lord of the Count de {136}Lusignan, andit was so hurtful to the pride of Isabella to see her husband kneel atthe feet of any man, that she gave him no rest until he joined her son,Henry III., whom she had instigated to undertake the conquest of Poitou.
Several years of warfare ensued, and at last the King of England fled toBordeaux. De Lusignan's possessions were overrun by the enemy, and QueenIsabella was forced, after much suffering, to throw herself on the mercyof the King of France, Louis IX.
She went to his camp with her husband and children, and, falling at hisfeet, begged for mercy. He received them kindly, and granted forgivenesson easy conditions.
Nevertheless, so ungrateful did Isabella show herself, that when anattempt was made on the life of good King Louis, in 1244, it was provedthat she had bribed people to poison him. She flew to the Abbey ofFontevraud for protection, and there hid herself from the French, whoheld her responsible for so much sorrow and bloodshed that they gave herthe name of Jezebel.
She died in 1246, and was buried in the common cemetery of Fontevraud.Some years later her son, Henry III., raised a stately monument over hergrave.
De Lusignan joined a crusade after the death of his wife, and was killedat one of the battles in 1249. His eldest son was known as Hugh XI.,Count de la Marche and Angoulme. His other children were liberallyprovided for by Henry III., much to the indignation of his Englishsubjects.
{137}



CHAPTER IX. ELEANOR OF PROVENCE, QUEEN OF HENRY III.
(A.D. 1222 - 1291.)
|Eleanor of Provence was married when she was only fourteen years old,and became the most unpopular queen that ever reigned over the Englishcourt. She was so beautiful as to be called _La Belle_, but her judgmentwas too immature tor her to stand all the adulation she received withoutbeing spoiled by it.
Before she entered her teens, Eleanor had written a poem in theProvenal dialect, which is remembered in her native country to thisday. Born in that land of poetry and song, of parents who were bothpopular poets among the troubadors, young Eleanor's talent was fosteredand encouraged by the very air she breathed.
It was this talent that was the means of placing her on the throne, forshe wrote a romance in verse, selecting Richard, Earl of Cornwall, whowas then preparing a crusade, for her hero. Romeo, her tutor, and one ofthe greatest Italian poets of his day, was so proud of his pupil, thathe carried the composition to Richard, who was immensely flattered byit. But he could not, in return for the compliment, offer his hand andheart to _La Belle_ Eleanor because he was already provided with onewife; therefore he did the next best thing--recommended her to hisbrother, Henry III.
So delighted was this king with the accounts he received of the beautyand genius of the maid of Provence, that {138}he put 'a stop to thetreaty under way for the hand of Joanna, daughter of the Earl ofPembroke, and forthwith despatched ambassadors to the court ofCount Berenger to demand his daughter Eleanor in marriage. With thecovetousness for which he was noted, he added a dower of twenty thousandmarks to his demand.
The court objected to so large a sum. Henry lowered it, but even thenthe father would not agree, and so much bargaining was the result thatthe high-spirited court was on the point of putting an end to the affairaltogether, when a peremptory order came from the king to conclude themarriage at once, with or without money. Then the contract was signedand the maiden was delivered with due solemnity to the ambassadors.
When she commenced her journey to England, the royal bride was attendedby a train of knights, ladies and minstrels who accompanied her to theFrench frontier. There she was met by her eldest sister, the wife ofKing Louis, and after receiving the congratulations of her relatives,she embarked for Dover and landed there January 4, 1236.
[[A.D. 1236.]] She was married at Canterbury, where King Henry hadreceived her with a splendid train of followers, and after the ceremonythe royal couple proceeded to London, where preparations on a very grandscale had been made for the reception and coronation of the new queen.
Her apartments at Westminster Palace had been newly decorated andfurnished by order of the king, and all the streets of London had beenthoroughly cleansed.
The 20th of January was appointed for the coronation, and on theprevious Saturday, Henry laid the first stone of the Lady Chapel inWestminster Abbey.
The streets through which the procession passed were
{139}
[Illustration: 0143]
{141}hung with flags, banners and garlands of flowers, and the houseswere gaily decorated. Three hundred and sixty equestrians, preceded bythe king's trumpeters, who sounded as they moved along, accompanied theroyal pair from the tower. These were loyal citizens, who, mounted onrichly caparisoned horses and clad in bright, embroidered satin andvelvet garments, each carried in his hand a gold or silver cup to beused at the banquet. They were called cellarers, and it was their dutyto hand wine to the royal butler, who passed it to the sovereigns. Afterthe banquet, the butler always claimed the cup out of which the king haddrank, the curtain that hung behind the royal table became the propertyof the doorkeepers, other perquisites being divided among the cooks andscullions. King Henry was very charitable and did not forget the poor,among whom a liberal supply of money was distributed by his orders.
At this coronation were worn the most splendid garments ever seen inEngland. They were made of the costliest satin and velvet, richly,embroidered in gold and silver, and the ladies wore head-dressescomposed of rare and precious gems. The queen's crown was worth 1500,and her girdle was studded with jewels of great value.
The king, who had a taste for finery not often seen in men, wore agarment of gold tissue that glittered with every motion.
The expenses of Eleanor's coronation were so enormous that the king hadto petition the Lords for money. They refused, saying, "that theyhad amply supplied funds both for his marriage and that of his sisterIsabella, who had just been united to the Emperor of Germany; and as hehad wasted the money he might defray the expenses of his wedding as besthe could."
Great dissatisfaction was felt in England on account of {142}the numberof foreigners who had accompanied Queen Eleanor. Among these was heruncle, Peter of Savoy, who by the end of a year had gained such completecontrol over Henry that all the affairs of the kingdom were submitted tohim.
Throughout his reign, Henry III. too frequently made demands on thepurses of his subjects, to supply his unbounded extravagance, and QueenEleanor was no check to him in this respect. Their tastes were similar,and Henry had in his wife a congenial companion, interested, as he was,in literature and art. Her influence over him was unbounded, and he wasnever known to refuse any demand she made, no matter how unreasonable itwas.
Their first child was born at Westminster in 1239, and received the nameof Edward, in honor of Edward the Confessor.
An attempt was made on the king's life one night by a crazy man namedRibald, who concealed himself in the palace during the day and stoleinto the king's bed-chamber at midnight. Fortunately Henry spent thenight in another apartment, otherwise the score of stabs that the madmaninflicted on the bolster would certainly have put an end to his majesty.The shrieks of one of the queen's maids of honor, who heard the would-bemurderer shouting horrible threats with each thrust of his dagger,aroused the household, and the wretch was taken into custody.
[[A.D. 1241.]] In 1241, a year after the birth of her daughter Margaret,Queen Eleanor accompanied her husband to France, on an expeditionagainst their brother-in-law, King Louis. After a series of defeats,they took refuge in Bordeaux, where many of Henry's knights and noblesforsook him and returned to England. He revenged himself by imposingupon them heavy fines,--his favorite mode of punishment
{143}
[Illustration: 0147]
{145}Henry and Eleanor spent a merry winter at Bordeaux, amusingthemselves with feasts and pageants that they could ill afford, and ontheir return to England, in 1243, Henry issued an order compelling theprincipal inhabitants of every town on the route to appear on horsebackto give them welcome.
[[A.D. 1243.]] The marriage of the queen's youngest sister, to theking's brother Richard, Earl of Cornwall, who had become a widower,was solemnized in England the following autumn. On that occasion Henrycalled upon his Jewish subjects to furnish funds for the sumptuousfestivities that he saw fit to give, and he spared no expense, for thewedding-dinner alone consisted of thirty thousand dishes.
But he remembered the poor as usual, and ordered all the children fromthe streets and highways of Windsor and its neighborhood to be collectedtogether and feasted in the great hall of the palace, after which theroyal children--of whom there were then three--were weighed, andsilver coin placed in the balance was distributed among the destituteindividuals present.
The following year the threatened war between England and Scotland wasaverted by a contract of marriage between the infant Princess Margaretof England and the heir of Scotland.
England was in such a dreadful state of misrule at this time that notraveller was safe from plunder; and in some counties no jury daredto punish the plunderer. Henry himself sat on the bench of justice andtried many cases. Once he summoned Lord Clifford for some offence, butthe gentleman not only refused to answer, but forced the king's officersto eat the royal warrant, seal and all. He was severely punished.
One great cause of Eleanor's unpopularity was the means {146}sheemployed for extorting money from her subjects. She compelled vesselscarrying valuable cargoes to unload at her quay, no matter howinconvenient it might be, in order that she might receive the toll. Whenthe royal funds were almost exhausted, the king and queen, with theirson, Prince Edward, daily invited themselves to dine with the differentrich men of London in turn, to save the expense of keeping up a table oftheir own. They added to this economical mode of living by insisting oncostly presents from their entertainers as a proof of loyalty.
[[A.D. 1251.]] The year 1251 closed with the marriage of the PrincessMargaret and Alexander III. of Scotland, whose engagement had beensigned seven years before. As the bride was just ten years of age, andthe groom twelve, they probably had not much choice in this matter.
On the morning preceding the ceremony, the youthful groom was knightedat York Cathedral. The wedding feast was served by the archbishop at acost of four thousand marks; and he supplied six hundred oxen, that wereall consumed at one meal. The costumes worn by the nobility were, aswhen Eleanor, her mother, was married, of the most extravagant material,scolloped, embroidered and ornamented with costly jewels. The queen andher ladies wore robes that trailed on the ground, but, as they were thesame length all around, they had to be held up to enable the wearers towalk. The height at which they were raised depended upon the beauty orugliness of the feet and ankles, no doubt. During this reign the hairwas gathered under a network of gold, over which was usually thrown agauze veil. Unmarried ladies wore ringlets, or long braids hanging downthe back and fastened with ribbons. A head-dress made in the shape of aknight's helmet, with an aperture for the face to peep through, was
{147}
[Illustration: 0151]
{149}worn by ladies, old and young, in the street, and must have beenvery becoming.
After Margaret's marriage, the king became even more extortionate in hisdemands for money than ever, and thus made a host of enemies. He appliedfor funds for a crusade, but was refused, and shortly after he wascalled upon to quell an insurrection at Guienne. This was the result ofthe recall of the Earl of Leicester, who had been governor there.
The earl had been replaced by Prince Edward, who was only fourteen, andtherefore incapable of managing public affairs. Before his departure,King Henry appointed Eleanor regent of England, but requested herto advise with his brother Richard, Earl of Cornwall, on matters ofimportance. He sailed from Portsmouth August 6, and arrived at Bordeauxon the 15th of the same month.
Queen Eleanor's first act, on finding herself in power, was to tax theLondon citizens more heavily than her husband had ever done, and thosewho refused her unjust claims were sent to the Marshalsea Prison. Thisconduct aroused universal indignation, and the following year, whenparliament was summoned for the purpose of demanding aid to carry on thewar in Gascony, they peremptorily declined to give it.
Every other means having failed, Henry instructed his brother to extortmoney from the Jews, and no sooner did he get it than he sent forEleanor to help him to squander it on the nuptials of Princess Eleanorof Castile with their eldest son, Prince Edward. Queen Eleanor willinglyresigned the cares of government to the Earl of Cornwall, and withhis wife, Prince Edmund, her second son, and a retinue of knightsand ladies, sailed for Bordeaux, where she was warmly welcomed by herhusband.
[[A.D. 1255.]] {150}After Prince Edward's marriage, his parents wentto pass a fortnight at the court of King Louis. The day after theirarrival, King Henry distributed so much money among the poor of Parisand gave such a grand entertainment to the crowned heads assembled tomeet him, that it was called the Feast of Kings.
On their return home, which occurred January 27, 1255, the king andqueen made a public entry into the city of London, and received apresent of a hundred pounds and a valuable piece of plate from thecitizens.
Shortly after, the royal couple were made extremely anxious by a reportthat the young king and queen of Scots were deprived of their rights andkept in close confinement by the regents, Sir John Baliol and Comyns.The queen's physician was immediately despatched to Scotland toascertain the facts. He managed to obtain a secret interview withMargaret, who gave a lamentable account of her treatment. She said,"that she had been rudely torn from her husband and shut up in a dismalplace, the dampness of which had seriously injured her health, and, sofar from having any share in the government, she and he were treatedwith disrespect and were in danger of their lives."
Queen Eleanor was so distressed at the condition of her child, that sheaccompanied the king on a northern campaign, constantly urging him todo something to aid her. The Earl of Gloucester was sent to Scotlandfor that purpose, and with John Mansel gained admittance to Edinburghcastle, by disguising themselves in the dress of Baliol's tenants.Then, secretly admitting their followers, they surprised the garrison,restored the young king and queen to each other's society and carriedtheir cruel jailers, Baliol and Ross, before King Henry at Alnwick.Throwing themselves at the feet of the sovereign, the traitors imploredfor mercy and were forgiven, but as Baliol
{151}
[Illustration: 0155]
{153}was Henry's own subject he had to pay a heavy fine, which hismajesty pocketed for his own private wants.
Queen Eleanor was lying ill at Wark Castle, and requested her daughterMargaret, with the young king of Scotland, to join her withoutdelay. They obeyed, and as soon as the royal mother was convalescent,accompanied her to Woodstock, where King Henry joined them. The courtwas kept with extraordinary splendor at that beautiful palace, whichcontained three kings and three queens, with their retinues, during thewinter of 1255, for besides the English and the Scottish royal couples,there was Richard, Earl of Cornwall, who had been elected King of theRomans, and his second wife, Queen Eleanor's sister.
[Illustration: 0157]
They all made a public entry into London in February, wearing theircrowns and royal robes, and the entire populace {154}assembled towitness the splendid procession. After the departure of the royalvisitors, there was a season of misery and gloom caused by a dreadfulfamine, and by the drain that had been made on the public treasury bythe King and Queen of the Romans, who, on departing for Aix-la-Chapelle,where they were to be crowned, carried with them seven hundred thousandpounds sterling. Added to this were the battles of the barons, to whomboth Henry and Eleanor had made themselves obnoxious by frequent actsof selfishness and injustice, and finally the shameful attack upon theJews, whose wealth had excited the envy of the nation.
The mob was led on by the Marshal of London and John Fitz-John, apowerful baron, killing and plundering without mercy, men, women andchildren of that noble race, and driving hundreds from their beds intothe street half clad as they were. The next morning they began againwith such demoniacal yells that the queen, who was at the Tower, wasso terrified that she got into her barge with several of her ladies,intending to escape to Windsor Castle. But as soon as the populaceobserved the royal barge, they made a rush for the bridge, crying:"Drown the witch!--drown the witch!" at the same pelting the queen withmud and trying to sink the vessel by hurling down huge blocks of woodand stone that they tore from the unfinished bridge. There was nothingfor Eleanor to do but to hasten back to the Tower, where she remaineduntil nightfall, then sought shelter in the Bishop of London's palaceat St. Paul's, whence she was privately removed to Windsor Castle, wherePrince Edward was garrisoned with his troops.
[[A.D. 1264.]] While the civil war continued King Henry took the queenand her children to France, where she remained under the care of KingLouis and her sister Margaret.
{155}
[Illustration: 0159]
{157}At the battle of Lewes, the king and Prince Edward were capturedand locked up in the Castle of Wallingford. As soon as Eleanor heardtheir sad fate she sent word to Sir Warren de Basingbourne, her son'sfavorite knight, that Wallingford was feebly guarded and could notresist an attack. Sir Warren lost no time in crossing the country withthree hundred horsemen, and laid siege to the castle, which, contrary tohis expectation, was warmly defended. At last the besiegers called outto Sir Warren that "if they wanted Prince Edward, they should have himbound hand and foot, and shot from the mangonel"--a war engine used forthrowing stones. On hearing this, the prince begged leave to speakwith his friends, and appearing on the wall "assured them that if theypersevered in the siege, he should be destroyed." Thereupon Sir Warrenand his chevaliers withdrew.
The royal prisoners were afterwards removed to Kenilworth Castle, andLady Maud Mortimer, who was warmly attached to the queen, helped PrinceEdward to escape. Having sent him the necessary instructions, she had aswift horse concealed in a thicket on a certain day when it was plannedthat he was to ride races with his attendants. When all the horses weretired out, he approached the spot where Lady Maud's fresh one awaitedhim, and after mounting, he turned to his guard and said: "Commend meto my sire, the king, and tell him I shall soon be at liberty." He thengalloped off to a hill, about a mile distant, where a band of armedknights awaited him.
Although the queen was living in France at this time, she made severalsecret visits to England, to ascertain the true state of affairs there.After her husband's dreadful defeat at Lewes, she pawned all her jewels,and, with the money thus raised, collected a powerful army that mighthave subdued the whole kingdom if they had ever reached {158}it. But theAlmighty mercifully ordained otherwise, and before Queen Eleanor, withher foreign troops, set sail, the battle of Evesham was fought and wonby Prince Edward.
[[A.D. 1265.]] At this battle King Henry was wounded in the shoulder andwould have been cut down by one of his own soldiers, who mistook himfor an enemy, had he not cried out in a feeble voice: "Slay me not, I amHenry of Winchester, your king."
An officer who happened to be within hearing, conducted him to PrinceEdward, and thus the royal father and son met once more. After tenderlyembracing his sire, the prince knelt to receive his blessing.
A succession of victories for Edward soon put an end to the barons' warsand reinstated the royal family of England. It is much to the credit ofKing Henry, that after he was restored to power, not one of his enemieswas brought to the scaffold. But he punished them with such heavy finesthat many of the rebel barons were reduced to penury.
[[A.D. 1269.]] Henry III. lived to witness the completion of St.Edward's chapel at Westminster, which he had begun fifty years before.On St. Edward's day, October 13, 1269, assisted by his two sons andhis brother, the King of the Romans, he bore the bier of Edward theConfessor to the chapel and deposited it in the new receptacle. Thisceremony was witnessed by the whole court, and Queen Eleanor offered atthe shrine a silver image of the Virgin, besides jewels of great value.King Henry reserved the old coffin of the saint for his own use, andwas placed in it just three years later, having expired on the 16th ofNovember, 1272.
He was buried at Westminster Abbey, near the shrine of Edward theConfessor. His funeral was conducted with {159}great magnificence bythe Knights Templars-military monks who, in the middle ages, acted asbankers and money-brokers to all Europe--and they raised a fine monumentto his memory, which was afterwards inlaid with precious stones broughtfrom the Holy Land for that purpose, by Edward I., King Henry's heir.
Queen Margaret, of Scotland, followed her royal father to the gravewithin the year, and then, bowed down with suffering and sorrow, QueenEleanor retired to Ambresbury, where four years later she entered theconvent and took the veil.
[[A.D. 1291.]] She survived her husband nineteen years, and when shedied her body was embalmed and placed in a vault until King Edward, herson, returned from his campaign in Scotland. Then he summoned all hisbarons and clergy to Ambresbury, where the funeral rites were dulyperformed and his mother's body was buried. Her heart was conveyed toLondon and interred in a church.
[Illustration: 0163]
{160}



CHAPTER X. ELEANORA OF CASTILE, FIRST QUEEN OF EDWARD I.
(A.D. 1244-1291).
|Edward I. was only fifteen years old when he accompanied his motheracross the Pyrenees from Bordeaux, to claim the hand of Eleanora, sisterto King Alphonso of Castile, to whom he had been betrothed severalmonths before.
[[A.D. 1256.]] The marriage was solemnized a few days, after hisarrival, feasts and tournaments in honor of the event followed, and thenthe little bride of ten years proceeded with her lord to Paris. Shewas present at the feast of kings, given by King Henry to celebrate hisson's marriage, of which mention is made in the preceding reign.
When Henry III. and Queen Eleanor returned to England, the young couplewent with them and made their public entry into the metropolis in grandstate.
Among the numerous entertainments given to welcome the bride, that whichtook place at the house of John Mansel, the secretary of state, was themost remarkable. All the royal family, with their entire retinue,were present, and as the mansion was by no means capacious enough toaccommodate so large a party, tents were erected on the surroundinggrounds. Considering that seven hundred messes of meat were served atone meal, it is not surprising that Mansel's house was too small.
{161}
[Illustration: 0165]
{163}A few months later, Prince Edward took his little wife to Bordeauxto complete her education, which had scarcely begun at the time of hermarriage. While she pursued her studies, the prince led the life of aknight-errant, wandering from place to place, and taking part in varioustilting matches and tournaments until summoned to England to take partin the civil wars that resulted, after several years, in the completerestoration of Henry III.
[[A.D. 1265.]] Peace was so far established in 1265 as to warrant thereturn of Queen Eleanor, who took her daughter-in-law home with her.
Prince Edward met the ladies at Dover, and was delighted to welcome hiswife, who had, during her absence, developed into a remarkably handsomewoman. She had clear cut, delicate features, a fine figure, andmagnificent black hair, peculiar to Spanish ladies.
The young couple set up their establishment at the palace of Savoy,built by Edward's uncle, but passed much of their time at WindsorCastle, where, a year later, their first son was born. He received thename of John, after his unworthy grandfather. In 1267 a second son wasborn and named Henry.
Prince Edward was too restless a man and too much of a soldier to settledown to a life of luxury and ease, and an escape from injury, or perhapsdeath, that he had one day when playing chess at Windsor, turned histhoughts towards a crusade. He had just left the table, with no specialpurpose, when the centre stone of the ceiling fell and crushed thechair he had occupied. This circumstance convinced him that he was underDivine protection and that his life was spared for some great work.
He therefore began his preparations for a campaign in Syria forthwith.Prince Edward was eminently fitted for a crusader, being a powerful man,tall, well formed, remarkably {164}agile in wielding his sword, and anexcellent horseman.
His wife loved him so fondly that she resolved to accompany him,though it was a sacrifice to leave her two lovely little boys. All thehardships and dangers attendant upon a crusade were laid before Eleanorain graphic colors, but she was willing to brave them all rather than lether husband go without her. "Nothing," said this faithful wife, "oughtto part those whom God hath joined, and the way to heaven is as near, ifnot nearer, from Syria as from England or my native Spain."
Before leaving England, Eleanora, in company with Queen Eleanor, visitedthe various shrines throughout the kingdom and made offerings, some ofthem being of great value.
[[A.D. 1270.]] In the spring of 1270 the young couple bade farewell tothe two sons they were never to see again, and set sail for Bordeaux,thence to Sicily, where they were to be joined by King Louis of France,with his army.
But the death of King Louis occurring at this time, deprived PrinceEdward of the aid he had counted on, and caused his detention forseveral months. The King of Sicily tried to persuade him to abandonthe crusade, but heroically striking his breast the princeexclaimed:--"_Sang de Dieu_, if all should desert me, I would lay siegeto Acre, if only attended by Fowen my groom!"
In the spring and summer of 1271 Edward made two successful campaignsand defeated the Saracens with great slaughter. Returning to Cyprusfor reinforcements, he undertook the siege of Acre, and established areputation in the Holy Land, not inferior to that of his great uncle,Cour de Lion.
The Saracen admiral, bent on revenge, sent a messen-
{165}
[Illustration: 0169]
ger {167}several times to the prince, with letters, in which heexpressed his desire to become a Christian convert. He was alwaysreceived in private, because the admiral's life would be in danger fromhis own people unless the utmost secrecy were observed. The fifth timethe ambassador presented himself, Edward was lying on a lounge, clad ina loose garment, as the weather was very warm. He was soon absorbed inthe letters that had been written on purpose to please him. Suddenlythe letter-carrier drew forth a poniard and aimed at the prince, whofortunately perceived the treachery in time to receive the blow on hisarm. The man made another attempt, but Edward felled him to the groundwith a powerful kick in the breast, then seizing a stool, killedhim outright. The sound of the scuffle brought in Prince Edward'sattendants, one of whom beat out the brains of the treacherousmessenger. "What was the use of striking a dead man?" asked the prince,with stern reproach.
A surgical operation became necessary before the wounded arm could becured, but at the end of a fortnight Edward was able to mount his horse,the attention and good nursing of his wife having hastened his recovery.
Eleanora had a little princess soon afterward, and called her Joanna ofAcre, from the place of her birth.
As his army had become much reduced, Prince Edward took leave of theHoly Land and returned to Sicily with his wife and infant. Sad newsawaited them, for a messenger announced the death of their two littleboys in England, and they had scarcely recovered from the shock whenanother arrived to inform them that Henry III. also had died.
The firmness and resignation with which Edward had borne the loss ofhis sons now gave way to an outburst of grief that surprised everyone, particularly as his father's death made him King of England. Whenquestioned on {168}the subject Edward replied: "The loss of infants maybe repaired by the same God that gave them, but when a man has losta good father it is not in the course of nature for God to send himanother."
The royal pair spent a year in Rome before returning to England. Duringtheir passage through France, Edward took part in several tournaments,and did not land at Dover with his wife until August 2, 1273.
[[A.D. 1273.]] Preparations for their coronation were speedilyconcluded, and that important ceremony took place on the 19th of August.Great enthusiasm was exhibited by the citizens of London, who hadenjoyed a season of such prosperity since the establishment of peacethat they were anxious to prove their loyalty to the new king and queenby lavish expenditure. Both houses of parliament assembled to welcometheir majesties, and for two weeks after the coronation banquets wereserved every day in the wooden buildings that had been erected in thepalace grounds for that purpose. The rich and the poor, the countryyeoman and the Londoner, were welcomed alike and entertained free ofcharge. It was a fortnight of universal rejoicing, and the openingreign promised to be an exceedingly popular one. But the most remarkablefeature of the coronation was this: while the king was at a feastprepared in the palace for the lords who had attended him duringthe ceremony, King Alexander of Scotland came to pay his respects,accompanied by a hundred knights. They arrived on horseback, and, aseach man alighted, his horse was turned loose to become the propertyof any person, no matter what his station, who might be lucky enough tocapture him. Afterwards came Edmund, the king's brother, the Earls ofPembroke and Warren, with their train of knights, and the horses of thiswhole party were likewise turned loose. {169}Llewellyn, the Prince ofWales, did not appear at the coronation, and this displeased the kingso much that he sent to inquire into the cause, whereupon the princereplied that as he had reconquered all the Welsh territory that Edward'sNorman predecessors had taken possession of, he owed no homage to theKing of England.
Later, when Llewellyn's bride was on her way to Wales, her vessel wascaptured by the Bristol merchantmen, and the damsel was taken prisoner.King Edward treated her with courtesy, and placed her in charge ofthe queen at Windsor Castle. Then the prince submitted to the requiredhomage with alacrity and went to Worcester, where the King and Queen ofEngland met him, bringing his lady love with them. The marriage ceremonywas performed at Worcester Cathedral; King Edward gave the bride away,the queen supported her at the altar, and both honored the marriagefeast with their presence. A year later the young princess died, thenher husband repented of his homage and suddenly invaded England, but hewas killed on the battle-field without accomplishing anything.
[[A.D. 1283.]] Wales was in such an unsettled state in 1283 that KingEdward found his presence there very necessary. The queen went with himand established her court at Rhuddlan Castle. By that time the royalcouple had several children, and their sixth daughter, PrincessIsabella, was born soon after their arrival in Wales.
The following year the queen removed to the Castle of Caernarvon,because it was the strongest fortress in Wales, and the king wantedto feel that she was safe from insurgents. There, in a gloomy littlechamber, ten feet by eight, a prince was born on the 25th of April,1284. The room had no fireplace, but tapestry was hung on the walls tokeep out draughts. It was Queen Eleanora who first {170}put tapestry tothis use in England in imitation of a Moorish custom that she had seenadopted in Spain. A Welsh nurse was procured for the infant, becausethe queen knew that it would please the people to have a native woman inthat position. Edward I. was at Rhud-dlan Castle, trying to negotiate atreaty of peace with the authorities of Wales, when a gentleman arrivedto inform him of the birth of his son. He was so delighted that heknighted the man on the spot and made him a present of some lands.
The king then hastened to Caernarvon to see his wife and baby. Threedays later all the chiefs from the different parts of North Wales met atthe castle to tender their submission to Edward, and to implore him toappoint them a prince of their own land, whose native tongue was neitherFrench nor Saxon.
Edward assured them that he would comply, whereupon they promised thatif his character was free from stain, they would certainly accept himwithout a murmur. Then the king ordered his infant son to be brought in,and presenting him to the assembly, said, "that he was a native of theircountry, his character was without reproach, that he could not speak aword of English or French, and that if they pleased, the first words heuttered should be Welsh."
As there was no alternative, the rough mountaineers kissed the littlehand and swore fealty to Edward of Caernarvon.
The queen soon removed to Conway Castle, where she was surrounded withall the comforts and luxuries the age afforded. Under her influence theWelsh made rapid strides towards civilization, and she felt happy to beamong them; but they had been so barbarous when she first went to theircountry that the king had to threaten se-
{171}
[Illustration: 0175]
vere {173}punishment to any one "who should strike the queen or snatchanything out of her hand."
[[A.D. 1285.]] King Alexander of Scotland died in 1285, and his heiress,the Princess Margaret of Norway, was by consent of the nobles ofScotland, solemnly betrothed to little Edward of Caernarvon, Prince ofWales.
In 1290, Queen Eleanora was the mother of nine beautiful princesses, towhose care and education she devoted a great deal of time. Theyoccupied a retired portion of Westminster Palace, which was called inconsequence, Maiden Hall. One of these princesses entered a convent, notlong after the ninth one was born, and during the same year threeothers married. The rejoicings that attended the nuptial ceremonies weresuddenly brought to a close by a dreadful calamity. It had been arrangedthat the little Queen Margaret of Scotland should go to England tobe educated under the guidance of Queen Eleanora, but she died on thevoyage. This sad event was disastrous to Scotland, and threatened theprosperity of the whole kingdom, by severing the bond that would haveunited it had the marriage between Margaret and Edward been consummated.
[[A.D. 1291.]] As soon as the king heard of Margaret's death he startedfor Scotland, bidding his beloved Eleanora to follow as speedily aspossible. But before he reached his destination a messenger overtook himwith news of the queen's dangerous illness. She had been attackedwith fever while travelling through Lincolnshire, and prevented fromproceeding. Edward turned back instantly, and everything was lost sightof excepting that his dear wife was ill and suffering. Notwithstandingthat he pushed forward with utmost haste, he arrived too late, for thequeen was dead. King Edward's grief was so deep for a time that he wasunable to attend to public affairs of {174}any description. He followedthe corpse of his wife for thirteen days, stopping at every importanttown to have a funeral ceremony performed at the largest church whereall the neighboring priests and monks assembled for the purpose. As theroyal bier approached London the officers and principal citizens metit, clad in black hoods and gowns, and marched in solemn procession toWestminster Abbey.
Queen Eleanora was buried at the feet of her royal father-in-law.Besides the beautiful monument in bronze for which King Edward paidan Italian artist 1700, he erected others in the shape of a crossin memory of the _chre reine_, as he called his wife, at each of theplaces where the funeral procession halted on the way to London. Thelast stopping place was the one now called Charing Cross, a perversionof the original French, which signified "dear queen's cross."
Eleanora of Castile was sincerely lamented in England; for as Walsinghamsays of her: "To our nation, she was a living mother, the columnand pillar of the whole realm. She was a godly, modest and mercifulprincess, who consoled the sorrow-stricken, and made those friends thatwere at discord."
During the reign of Edward I. and Eleanora, sculpture, architecture,casting in brass and bronze, and wood-carving were encouraged, and manybeautiful specimens of these branches of art appeared in England.
Of all the children of this royal couple, the nun-princess and EdwardII. were the only ones that reached middle age.
{175}



CHAPTER XI.
MARGUERITE OF FRANCE, SECOND QUEEN OF EDWARD I.
(A.D. 1282-1317.)
|King Edward I. was so grieved at the death of his "_chre reine_,"that he gave himself up to the deepest melancholy, which lasted severalmonths. He was growing old, and felt the loss of his companion ofmany years most keenly. However, he learned in time to submit to theinevitable, and roused himself to attend to the affairs of his kingdom.
No sooner did his ministers observe this favorable change in the mindof their monarch than they set to work to effect further improvementby seeking a successor to the defunct queen. Their choice fell onMarguerite, the sister of Philip le Bel of France.
[[A. D. 1299.]] After the usual preliminaries the treaty was dulysigned, and the marriage was celebrated at Canterbury, Sept. 8, 1299.
Marguerite was only seventeen years old, but she was such a good,sedate and pious woman that her union with a man old enough to be hergrandfather proved by no means an unhappy one. On the contrary, sheexercised a wholesome influence over him, and prompted him to manymerciful and worthy actions.
It was due to her persuasion that the poor widow, Lady MargueriteHoward, was released from a debt to the crown which she could notpossibly have paid, and many of her subjects could cite similar actsprompted by her good and tender heart. {176}The citizens of Winchesterwere deeply indebted to her for preserving them from King Henry's wrathwhen Bernard Pereres, a hostage from the city of Bayonne, made hisescape. He had been confided to the care of the mayor of Winchester, andwas looked upon as a prisoner of the greatest importance. King Edwardplaced a sheriff in charge of the city, deprived the people of all theirliberties, fined the mayor three hundred marks, and shut him up in theMarshalsea prison until he should be able to pay the sum. The Winchestercitizens were in despair, and threw themselves on the mercy of theirqueen. She recalled the exhibition of loyalty that they had made whenshe appeared among them a bride, and her heart warmed towards them intheir distress. Fortunately, she was able to aid them, for the king hadpresented her with the charter of Winchester, thus entitling her toall the fines levied on its citizens. With this document she presentedherself before her lord, and claimed the unfortunate mayor with histhree hundred marks, as her property. Edward yielded, and even restoredthe liberties of which he had, in his displeasure, deprived theWinchester people. They never ceased to be grateful to Queen Marguerite.
But this occurred after she had been Edward's wife several years. Wemust return to the beginning of her reign.
On the Wednesday after his marriage, the king was suddenly andunexpectedly summoned to Scotland because of a rebellion that had brokenout there. During his absence the queen occupied apartments in theTower, and as the small-pox was raging in London that season, her courtwere quarantined in that palace.
The following year she joined the king in Scotland, but stopped atBrotherton in Yorkshire while he was fighting his battles.
[[A. D. 1300.]] On the first of June, 1300, her first child
{177}
[Illustration: 0181]
{179}was born. It was a boy, and Queen Marguerite gave him the name ofThomas, after the favorite English saint, Thomas  Becket of Canterbury.
The queen occupied Cawood Castle at that time, and during the four yearsshe spent in that magnificent fortress, her husband was laying siegeto one stronghold after another, until Scotland was subdued from seato sea. Stirling Castle was the last one to yield, but when KingEdward made his triumphal journey home to England, its brave commander,Wallace, was carried a captive in the royal train.
On their return to London, the king and queen gave a series ofentertainments to celebrate the conquest of Scotland. One of thegrandest tournaments ever witnessed in England took place at that time,at Westminster Palace, on which occasion Prince Edward and two hundredother noblemen were knighted. In 1308 the queen had another son. Shenamed him Edmund, and he afterward became the Earl of Kent.
[[A. D. 1308.]] King Edward was on his way to Scotland in 1308, but fellill before he reached the border. He lingered until the Prince of Walesreached him, and with his dying breath commanded his son, "to be kindto his little brothers, and, above all, to treat with respect andtenderness his mother, Queen Marguerite."
Much sorrow was felt at the death of their warrior king, but his wifemourned for the loss of the tender, affectionate husband Edward hadalways been.
A few months after his death she went to France to be present at themarriage of Edward II., with her niece, Isabella. On her return toEngland she lived in seclusion, devoting her time and money to deeds ofcharity. Marguerite died on the 14th of February, 1317, at the earlyage of thirty-six, and was buried at the Grey Friars church, a splendidbuilding that she had founded.
[[A. D. 1317.]] {180} Her stepson, Edward II., had always loved her, andto show his respect for her memory, he not only had her pall draped withrich material of silk striped with gold, but erected a splendid monumentbesides.
Queen Marguerite is the ancestress of all the English nobility bearingthe name of Howard, who unite in their veins the blood of St. Louis withthe greatest of the Plantagenet kings.
[Illustration: 0184]
{181}



CHAPTER XII. ISABELLA OF FRANCE, QUEEN OF EDWARD II.
(A.D. 1295-1358.)
|Isabella of France was a princess of the very highest rank, her fatherbeing Philip IV. of France, and her mother Queen of Navarre. But shewas likewise one of the worst women that ever occupied the throne ofEngland. She was born in 1295, and when only nine years of age wasbetrothed to Edward, Prince of Wales. At that time her father agreed tosettle on her the sum of 18,000 for her marriage portion.
He was not rich enough to give her so much money, but he got possessionof it by murdering and robbing the poor Knights Templars--a religiousbody first established at Jerusalem to protect pilgrims travelling inthe Holy Land. Such ill-gotten gain could not be expected to bestow muchpleasure or profit on the possessor of it.
When Edward I. was dying, he charged his son to lose no time incompleting the arrangements for his marriage, and the prince hadreceived such favorable reports concerning the personal charms ofhis lady-love that he hastened to obey. Before the king was buried hedispatched two earls to France to appoint the wedding day.
He was so much in love, that it is said he lost the kingdom of Scotlandby hurrying away to get married when his presence in that country wouldhave made him its sovereign.
He need not have been in such haste, for Isabella was scarcely fourteenyears of age, and perhaps if he had waited {182}until her mind was morematured, she would not have acted so unwisely as she did on severaloccasions afterwards.
Grand preparations were made at Westminster Palace for the reception ofthe young queen. The royal apartments were re-decorated and handsomelyfurnished, the gardens were newly laid out and planted with the rarestflowers, the fish-ponds were all cleaned out and freshly supplied,and Queen's Bridge was repaired. The royal ship called Margaret ofWestminster was cleaned, painted, and newly fitted up under the king'spersonal direction for the comfort of his expected bride, and no troubleor expense was spared that could add to her pleasure.
When everything was ready, Edward appointed his favorite, PiersGaveston, guardian of the country, and sailed, accompanied by QueenMarguerite, his stepmother, to meet his bride. He landed at Boulogne,where Isabella and her royal parents awaited him, and the next day themarriage was celebrated at the famous cathedral of that town.
[[A. D. 1308.]] Four kings and four queens were present, besides alarger number of princes and nobility than had ever met together onsuch an occasion, and the church presented an appearance of unusualmagnificence. The bride's beauty excited the greatest admiration, andshe was called Isabella the Fair. Had any member of that royal assemblybeen told that before the end of her life she would be known as the"She-wolf of France," he would not have believed it; appearances areoften deceptive.
Festivities were kept up for nearly two weeks, then the newly-weddedcouple went to Dover, where they were met by a large party of nobleladies and gentlemen who attended them to Westminster.
Among those who met them on their arrival in England was the PiersGaveston whom Edward had left as guardian during his absence. This manwas the cause of a great {183}
[Illustration: 0187]
deal of trouble later because of his unbounded influence over the king,who, the moment he caught sight of his favorite, flew to him and threwhis arms about his neck calling him "brother."
Isabella's outfit was magnificent. She had two superb solid gold crownsornamented with precious stones, a large number of gold and silverdrinking vessels, golden spoons, fifty silver soup-bowls, twelve largesilver dishes, and twelve smaller ones. Her dresses were made of goldand silver stuff, velvet, and shot silk. Six of them were of the finestimported green cloth, six were of mixed and figured material, and sixwere scarlet; she had, besides, a supply of costly furs, four hundredand nineteen yards of towels, and six dozen nightcaps. She brought withher the tapestry for her own chamber, on which were embroidered in goldthe arms of France, England, and Brabant.
Her father presented his son-in-law with a large number of the costliestrings, jewels, and other precious articles that could be found; butEdward was foolish enough to give all to Piers Gaveston, who had aperfect passion for finery.
Such conduct on the part of her husband made Isabella very angry, forshe looked upon these handsome gifts from her father as part of herdowry, and naturally she objected very decidedly to having them handedover to a stranger whom she had already begun to dislike.
Just a month after the marriage the day was appointed for the coronationof the young king and queen, but the nobles informed Edward that unlesshis haughty favorite were banished from court they would not attend theceremony. This threat signified that they meant to refuse their oath ofallegiance, so Edward was very much alarmed, but promised that atthe parliament, which was to meet immediately after the coronation,everything should be arranged {186}to their entire satisfaction. But hegave fresh cause for complaint by bestowing upon Piers Gaveston thevery highest office at the coronation,--that of bearing the St. Edward'scrown. This made one of the royal earls so angry that he would havekilled the favorite on the spot had it not been for the respect he feltfor the young queen.
Gaveston had taken it upon himself to manage everything; and either hisarrangements were badly made, or he was so unpopular, that nobodywould obey him, for there was nothing but disorder and confusion frombeginning to end. The crowd was so great that several people wereinjured, and one poor knight was knocked down and trodden to death. Itwas three o'clock in the afternoon before the coronation was over, andsince early morning those engaged in the ceremonies had eaten nothing.The company were not seated at the banquet until after dark, and thenevery dish was so poorly cooked and so badly served that the hungrynobles were indignant, and felt that they could sooner have forgiven thefavorite for any offence than this one. Isabella, too, was out of humorand exhausted; in short, all classes were dissatisfied, and many of thecustomary ceremonies had to be omitted because the usual masters of themwere absent.
Whether by accident or design, several slights were put upon the youngqueen that made her French followers so angry that they went back homeand complained to her father. Besides, Isabella sent a letter filledwith complaints against her husband and his too-powerful favorite. Thismade the King of France use all his influence to strengthen the party ofFrench barons who despised Gaveston, and even to induce the English onesto oppose him, too.
Probably, if the queen had been older, her beauty and talents mighthave enabled her to gain such control over {187}her husband that hisfavorite's presence would have had less effect; but she was so young andinexperienced that, although _she_ felt the importance of her positionin the English court, Edward treated her like a child, and this vexedher beyond everything.
Gaveston was just the sort of a person who could, if he chose, lead soweak a young man as Edward II., and, unfortunately, he did so choose.He was very handsome, a perfect Adonis, remarkable for his courteousmanners, courage, and sparkling wit. He would mimic and make fun of thepeculiarities of the English nobles for the amusement of the thoughtlessking, which was, of course, most displeasing to them, and he even wentso far as to ridicule the queen. She complained to her father, whosecretly induced the barons to insist upon the banishment of thefavorite. Edward was at last compelled to yield, and promised to sendhim beyond the seas, but the wily Gaveston had recently strengthened hisposition by marrying a niece of the king, so he had himself appointedGovernor of Ireland. Even his worst enemies own that he ruled thatcountry very well.
But the following year he came back to England to attend a tournament.He brought such a magnificent retinue, and made so great a display, thatthe barons were jealous, and hated him worse than ever. Little did theirdislike or their displeasure affect him, for he took his revenge byridiculing them anew, and calling them most provoking names. The Earlof Pembroke was dark, thin, and sallow-complexioned, so he named him"Joseph the Jew;" the Earl of Warwick, who foamed at the mouth when in apassion, was "the Wild Boar of Ardenne;" and the Earl of Lancaster, whodressed peculiarly, was styled "the_ Stage Player_." Thus he made funof the entire party. But the insults were treasured up against him;{188}and when, some years later, his day of reckoning dawned, not muchmercy was shown him.
In the meantime he had stirred up such a storm that his royal master'sthrone tottered under him. The queen and her uncle, the Earl ofLancaster, with all the barons, formed a combination against him sostrong that Edward dared not oppose it, and dismissed him to Guienne. Atparting with his favorite, he lavished on him all his jewels, even therings, brooches, and buckles that his young wife had presented him withat various times. This was one of the most foolish things Edward everdid, and nobody can blame Isabella for feeling offended.
However, she was at that time much beloved by her subjects, and, withGaveston out of the way, we hear no more complaints until the year 1312,when, to her great displeasure, he turned up again. This time, withhis usual lack of judgment, the king had recalled him, and made him hisprincipal secretary of state. This was a very high office, for he hadall the affairs of the country under his control, and so determinedwas he to keep Edward under his thumb that nobody could speak to himexcepting through the secretary.
This arrangement gave great offence, and when the young queen saw howthe royal favorite was injuring her husband by making the nation dislikehim, and, what was still worse, by leading him into dissipation andother acts of folly, she angrily remonstrated with him. He forgot therespect due to her rank, and answered with contempt, whereupon shecomplained to the king. But instead of upholding his wife and punishinghis insolent favorite, Edward treated the matter with the utmostindifference. Isabella was furious, and wrote to her father, the King ofFrance, a letter filled with bitter complaints of her husband's coldnessand neglect, saying, "that she was the most wretched of wives, and thatGaveston was the cause of all her troubles."
In reply, Philip secretly urged the peers to rebel, which they did atlast, headed by the Earl of Lancaster, and determined to compel Edwardto dismiss his hated secretary of state. Then began a civil war, themost horrible disaster that can overtake any country. Edward, evidentlyconsidering discretion the better part of valor, ran away with his wifeand his favorite. They got as far as York, but the victorious baronsentered that place in triumph, and the two fugitives sailed forScarborough, leaving the poor young queen alone, although she entreatedher husband with tears in her eyes to take her along.
Finding herself forsaken, Isabella retired to a remote castle, whereshe passed her time in visiting the sick and poor, which the followingnotes, found in the royal household book, prove:--
[[A.D. 1312.]] "October 9. To little Thomeline, the Scotch orphan boy,to whom the queen, being moved to charity by his miseries, gave food andraiment to the amount of six and sixpence."
And again:
"To the same orphan, on his being sent to London to dwell with Agnes,the wife of Jean, the queen's French organist; for his education, fornecessaries bought him, and for curing his maladies, fifty-two shillingsand eightpence."
While at this castle the queen received a message from her uncleLancaster assuring her of her safety, and telling her that they wereonly fighting to get hold of Gaveston.
The king, in the meantime, having left his favorite in the strongfortress of Scarborough, proceeded to the midland counties to raiseforces for his defence. But the men of England were so indignant atthe treatment their young {190}queen had received at the hands of herhusband and his unworthy guide, that instead of obeying the orders theyreceived, they rose _en masse_ to storm Gaveston in his shelter. Beingdestitute of provisions, and knowing that he could not withstand asiege, he surrendered on condition that he was to be safely conducted tothe king and allowed to speak with him freely before his trial.
[Illustration: 0194]
The barons, after solemnly swearing to observe this treaty, lost notime in bringing their prisoner to a sham trial. No mercy tempered theirjudgment of a man who had ridiculed and defied them, so they beheadedhim then and there. Afterwards they enjoyed the extreme satisfaction ofransacking the luckless favorite's baggage, and {191}found many of thecrown jewels, a number of precious ornaments that had been presented tothe king, and several articles of gold and silver plate from the royalhousehold.
When Edward heard of the murder of his friend, he was beside himselfwith rage and grief, and swore vengeance on the heads of those whohad committed the deed. He then joined the queen and went with her toWindsor, where their first child, afterwards Edward III., was born.
He was a fine healthy baby, and his parents, as well as the Englishnation, and the French nobles who were in the country were all delightedat this happy event. Four days after his birth the little fellow wasbaptized with great pomp, having no less than seven godfathers.
After this period, Isabella's influence over her husband was sostrengthened that she brought about a reconciliation between him and hisbarons, and there was peace in the realm once more. Then the kingand queen made a pleasure trip to Paris, where they spent two monthsenjoying the feasts and amusements which the magnificent and wealthycourt of Philip provided for their entertainment.
At last, through the entreaties of the queen, the pardon to all thosewho had assisted in causing the death of Gaveston was published, and herexcellent influence was felt in many ways.
During the next few years another prince and a princess were born, andon each occasion presents of great value were distributed by the royalpair.
In the household book there is mention of the king's gift of 333, "toIsabella, Queen of England, for the baptismal feast after the birth ofthe Lady Eleanora." There are also these entries, showing something ofthe fashions of the time:--{192}"_To Vanne Ballard, for pieces of silkand gold tissue of fustian and of flame-colored silk for the making ofcushions for the charrettes (carriages) of the queen and her ladies_."
"_To Robert le Termor, the bootmaker of Fleet Street, for six pairs ofboots with tassels of silk and drops of silver gilt, price of each pairfive shillings, bought for the king's use_."
When the royal couple kept Twelfth Night their presents were verygenerous. To one of their subjects they gave a silver gilt pitcher withstand and cover; to another, for presenting bunches of new grapes, 10s.;to another, for bringing a box of rose-colored sugar, 2 10s.; to themother of the king's fool, 10s., besides many others. To the LadyMary, the king's sister, who was a nun, fifteen pieces of tapestry withcoats-of-arms embroidered thereon, besides 26 on her departure fromcourt, and to three of his knights for dragging him out of bed on Eastermorning Edward paid 20.
[[A.D. 1317.]] During this fourteenth century there was the mostdreadful famine ever known in England, which lasted nearly three years.On one occasion, when the king and queen were dining in public inthe great hall of the palace at Westminster, a woman, wearing a mask,entered on horseback, rode straight up to the royal table, and handed aletter to the king. Thinking that it probably contained "someagreeable flattery", he ordered it to be read aloud. But, to his greatmortification, it took him severely to task for his unkingly fancies,and blamed his bad government for all the calamities that had befallenthe country. The woman was immediately arrested, and confessed thatshe had been employed by a certain knight. The person she named boldlyacknowledged that he had written the letter, supposing that it wouldbe read in private, and that the king would thus be informed of thecomplaints of his subjects.
[[A.D. 1321.]] {193}
[Illustration: 8197]
It was about four years after this event that the queen first met RogerMortimer, the man who exercised such an influence over her life. By thistime the king had two new favorites named Despencer. They were fatherand son, and both were bitter enemies to Roger Mortimer.
The circumstances of Isabella's life so began to shape themselves atthis period that from being a lovely, amiable peace-maker, she became abad, cruel, dishonored traitor. {194}In 1321 she set out on a pilgrimageto the tomb of St Thomas  Becket, proposing to spend the night at LeedsCastle, which was her own property. Baron Badlesmere had charge, of thiscastle, and lived there with his wife, so Isabella sent a marshal inadvance to have everything put in order for her reception, not imaginingfor a moment that any objection could possibly be raised to her stoppingthere. But the baron was absent from home, and had charged his wife toprotect the castle from any intruders whatsoever. Not knowing what mightbe the real object of the queen's visit, Lady Badlesmere did justthe wrong thing when the royal messengers arrived, treated them withinsolence, and said, "that the queen might seek some other lodging,for she would admit nobody within the castle without an order from herlord."
The messenger was still arguing the case with the lady when Isabellaarrived at the castle gates with her train. A volley of arrows greetedthe party, and killed six of the royal escort. The queen was obligedto seek other shelter for the night, but she was excessively angry,and complained bitterly to the king of the treatment she had received,begging him to avenge the insolence of Lady Badlesmere for daring toexclude her from her own castle. Badlesmere himself was foolish enoughto send a most insulting letter to the queen in reply to the complaintsthat had been addressed to him concerning his wife's conduct, declaringthat he heartily approved of what she had done. As this baron had heldthe high position of steward of the royal household before he wasplaced in charge of Leeds Castle, it is probable that the queen had donesomething to make him her enemy. Neither her Uncle Lancaster nor any ofhis associates seemed inclined to side with Isabella, so she determinedto be revenged on them all, and would not rest until her husbandpromised to besiege the castle. {195}A large force was soon gatheredtogether before the walls, but Lady Badlesmere felt certain that, withthe stock of provisions she had laid in, she could resist any attack,besides she expected all the barons to side with her. But she soon foundout her mistake, and in a few days the Castle of Leeds was obligedto surrender, and eleven of its defenders, including Badlesmere, werehanged just outside the gate. Lady Badlesmere was sent to the Tower ofLondon as a state prisoner.
[Illustration: 0199]
{196}Isabella now did all in her power to influence the king againstthe barons, instead of working to restore peace, as she once did. So hefought against them in person, and Lancaster was seized in the battle.He was sentenced by the king with the least possible delay, and beheadeda few hours later. The queen knew nothing about her uncle's sentenceuntil too late, otherwise, it is to be hoped, she would have endeavoredto save him. She was living in the Tower at the time, and it was therethat her youngest child, the Lady Joanna, was born.
Roger Mortimer had been captured while fighting against the king, andimprisoned in the Tower under sentence of death; but he managed in someunaccountable manner to see Isabella, and get her interested in him. Herinfluence was all-powerful at that period, so, to the astonishmentof everybody, she made Edward change Mortimer's sentence of death toimprisonment for life, though he had really commenced the civil war bya fierce attack on the lands of the Despencers. These men now hated thequeen more than ever for assisting their enemy.
The following year Mortimer planned his escape from the Tower with theassistance of the constable and others. The queen herself provided adrink for the guard that put them into a heavy sleep. Then the prisoner,who had worked a hole from his dungeon into the kitchen of the royalapartments, climbed up the chimney and got out on the roof, alongwhich he stealthily crawled to the Thames side, and descended by a ropeladder. The constable awaited him in a little boat, and rowed him acrossthe river, where seven of his friends met him on horseback. With thisguard he went to the coast of Hampshire, and pretended to sail to theIsle of Wight; but, instead of that, the fugitive got on board a largeship that had been engaged for him, and was soon landed in Normandy.Thence he went to Paris. When the king heard of the escape a great hueand cry was raised for Mortimer, dead or alive, but his whereabouts werenot suspected, and he remained safely hidden in France.
The Despencers now began to influence the king as powerfully as Gavestonhad done, and the queen commenced her plans for their destruction.She declared that they were the cause of all the recent bloodshed, andpretended that her Uncle Lancaster was a saint and a martyr, who onlymet his death by the advice of these favorites.
They had really committed one fault for which Isabella could not forgivethem; they had caused her allowance to be curtailed, and no one everoffended her without paying dearly for it.
She had ceased to be lovable to the king, and so had lost her hold onhim; but for this also she blamed the Despencers. Then she was deprived,by their advice, of her French servants and of all her possessions inEngland. She and her husband quarrelled to such an extent that at lastthey refused to see each other at all.
But Isabella was not meek enough to stand ill-treatment, so shecomplained to her brother, King Charles, who had succeeded to the throneof France. He wrote a very indignant letter to Edward, declaring hisintention of seizing all the provinces of the French crown held byEngland. But Edward was not prepared for war, and neither he nor hisministers dared to go to France to face the angry brother of Isabella.
[[A.D. 1325.]] In this dilemma the queen volunteered her services aspeace-maker, providing she might be allowed to go to Paris herself.Edward was only too happy to have the matter so easily settled, and theDespencers were delighted at the thought of getting rid of her. Isabellahad a little plan of her own which she {198}intended to carry out. Thefirst step was a treaty of peace, which she arranged on her arrival inFrance, between her brother and the King of England. She was not at allsurprised when the Despencers, who feared her influence over the weakmind of Edward, had dissuaded him from crossing the channel with her,even after his arrangements had been made. In fact, this was exactlywhat she had desired, because it enabled her to propose that her son,the Prince of Wales, should be invested with certain powers which shenamed, and sent in his father's stead. Both the king and the Despencersfell into the snare, and Isabella got the heir to the throne of Englandinto her own hands.
As soon as Isabella found herself safe in France with her son, shelaughed in her sleeve at the way she had hoodwinked her husband andhis despised favorites. She was just where she wanted to be, and had nointention of returning to England until affairs there had changed to hercomplete satisfaction. She and her brother, King Charles, hadconcocted a treaty, it is true, but it was so written as to be almostincomprehensible, and to leave much matter for dispute between the twosovereigns.
Isabella made all sorts of frivolous excuses for prolonging her stayin Paris, where she was joined by her favorite Mortimer and all thebanished English lords. Although these people were open enemies of herhusband and his government, the wicked queen held councils andmeetings with them, while she refused to have anything to do with thecommissioners Edward had appointed.
The Bishop of Exeter, horrified at her disgraceful behavior, went overto England to inform the king of it, and to advise him to command herimmediate return with the Prince of Wales.
Edward wrote several letters to his wife on this subject, {199}but shepaid no attention either to his entreaties or his orders. She declaredopenly "that it was the intention of the Despencers to cause her tobe put to death if she returned to England." She knew better, but thisstatement aided her schemes, and she even succeeded in deceiving herbrother, King Charles of France, who wrote King Edward "that he couldnot permit her to return to him unless she were guaranteed from the evilthat was meditated against her by her enemies, the Despencers."
Edward's reply to this letter was manly and dignified. He begged hisbrother-in-law not to credit anything so false, but to send back hiswife, of whom he wrote in kind, affectionate terms.
Isabella refused to go, and used her vile influence to encourage herson's disobedience in this matter also. Edward II. was very much hurt,and wrote frequently to his wife, reminding her of her duty, and takingher severely to task for her disloyal conduct.
It seems that during this time Isabella was treacherous enough to writemost friendly letters to Hugh Despencer, even though she had openlypronounced him her enemy.
What offended King Edward most of all was that his son, whom heloved dearly, was not only kept away from him, but that he constantlyassociated with his mother's friend and adviser, Mortimer, who hadproved himself a shameless, worthless traitor. Besides, Isabella hadcontracted a marriage between her son and a daughter of Count Hainaultwithout the slightest mention of the matter to her husband, and had evengone so far as to receive the bride's marriage dowry, which was paid inadvance, and used it for her own private expenses.
Edward's touching appeals took effect at last on the heart of KingCharles, who began to treat his sister coolly and to urge her return toEngland. But she had gone too {200}far to stop now, and her influenceover her son was so great that she made him believe her life was indanger both at the hands of his father and the Despencers. The youngman naturally felt that he must stay by his persecuted mother, and, ifnecessary, defend her.
Edward then applied to the Pope, who threatened to excommunicate KingCharles if he did not immediately dismiss Isabella and her son from hisdominions. The King of France was much alarmed at this threat, anddid not hesitate to act upon it at once, particularly as he was sodispleased with his sister that he had not spoken to her for a longtime. He swore "that whoever should speak in behalf of his sister, theQueen of England, should forfeit his lands and be banished the realm."
Isabella had a cousin named Robert d'Artois, who was warmly attached toher. One night he woke her up to inform her of a conspiracy that hehad just discovered to deliver her, the prince, the Earl of Kent, herhusband's brother, and Mortimer over to King Edward.
The queen was so alarmed that she did not know which way to turn. Robertadvised her to go to Germany, and place herself under the protection ofWilliam, Earl of Hainault, whose wife was her cousin. This plan struckher favorably, and the next night she left Paris with Mortimer, her son,and the Earl of Kent who always sided with her against his brother, KingEdward.
After some days they got into the country of Cambray, and lodged at thehouse of a poor knight, who received the party with great pleasure, andentertained them in the best possible manner. The Earl of Hainault wasa good, kind-hearted man, and felt very sorry when he thought of thequeen's being obliged to seek refuge in a foreign country, so he senthis young brother, Sir John, with a few other gentlemen, to pay hisrespects to Isabella and conduct
{201}
[Illustration: 0205]
{203}her to Valenciennes, where he was then living with his family.
Sir John, being filled with the spirit of a true knight-errant, burstinto tears when he heard Isabella's sad complaints from her own lips."Lady," he said, "see here your knight who will not fail to die for you,though every one else should forsake you; therefore I will do everythingin my power to conduct you safely to England with your son, and torestore you to your rank with the assistance of your friends in thoseparts; and I, and all those whom I can influence, will risk our lives onthe adventure for your sake; and we shall have a sufficient armed force,if it please God, without fearing any danger from the King of France."
The queen would have thrown herself at his feet, but he would not allowit, and said, as he caught her in his arms:
"God forbid that the Queen of England should do such a thing! Madam, beof good comfort to yourself and company, for I will keep my promise,and you shall come to see my brother and the countess, his wife, and alltheir fine children, who will be rejoiced to see you, for I have heardthem say so."
The queen answered: "Sir, I find in you more kindness and comfort thanin all the world besides; and I give you five hundred thousand thanksfor all you have promised with so much courtesy. I and my son shall beforever bound unto you, and we will put the kingdom of England underyour management, as in justice it ought to be."
Then Isabella mounted her horse, and set off with her train to followSir John to Valenciennes. Many of the citizens of that town cameforth to meet her, and she was received very graciously by the Earl ofHainault and his wife, who gave several feasts in her honor.
Isabella spent a week in this hospitable household, {204}during whichSir John's sympathies were so aroused in her behalf that he obtained hisbrother's permission to accompany her to England. In the meantime hehad written to certain knights in other parts of the country, beseechingthem to arm in the cause of the distressed Queen of England. Theexpedition gathered at Dort, where the queen and her suite met them.Here they all embarked, but the fleet was tossed about by a tempest forseveral hours, and some of the ships were knocked to pieces. At lastthe queen was brought safely to shore near Harwich, and her knightsand attendants built her a tent of carpets, and kindled a great fire ofpieces of the wrecked vessels. Then all the horses and arms were takenfrom the ships which, the wind being favorable by that time, were sentaround to the opposite coast. At daybreak the queen marched with herarmy to the next town, where she found the houses well stocked with allsorts of provisions, though the people had fled in terror, not knowingwhat to expect.
The advanced guard, meantime, marched through the country, seizing allthe cattle and food they could get hold of, and spreading miseryin every direction. When Isabella came along the owners complainedbitterly, but she paid them most liberally for all they had lost. Themoney thus distributed made the queen popular, and the people wereanxious to supply her with whatever she desired after that.
Although the king had forbidden his subjects to meet Isabella, when shearrived at Harwich a large number of knights, barons, and bishops wereassembled to welcome her. Her force numbered two thousand seven hundredand fifty-seven soldiers, commanded by Sir John of Hainault, and RogerMortimer commanded the English, who joined them after, they landed.
So many false stories had been circulated by the queen's agents of thepersecutions she had endured from her hus{205}band and his barbarousministers, and of the way she had been driven into a foreign land byplots against her life, that she was considered the most injured ofwives and queens.
[Illustration: 0209]
The common people were blinded by excitement, and flocked to meet herwithout stopping to inquire whether her cause were just or not. All thetales of her guilty conduct that had reached them from time to timethey now believed to have been pure inventions of her enemies, theDespencers. No voice was raised against her though she came with herson, the Prince of Wales, attended by an outlawed traitor and a band offoreigners to raise a revolt against her own husband. It seems strangethat such a wicked woman should have met with such success; but{206}every Plantagenet in England was on her side, and she had manyFrench relations there who always had thought her of more importancethan the king.
Instead of taking measures to defend himself, Edward wrote patheticletters to the Pope and to the King of France asking for aid, and issueda proclamation offering 1,000 for the head of the arch traitor, RogerMortimer. The queen then offered a reward of double that sum for thehead of the younger Despencer, and declared that her only motive incoming home was to deliver England from the king's bad advisers.
When Isabella attended church at Oxford in company with her son,Mortimer, and all her followers, the Bishop of Hereford preached thesermon and explained the queen's motive for taking up arms, concludingwith this sentence: "When the head of a kingdom becometh sick anddiseased, it must be taken off without useless attempts to administerany other remedy." It is shocking to think of the wife and son of a manso devoted to both, as King Edward certainly was, listening to such amurderous speech without expressing their horror and indignation.But the only effect of it was to increase the madness of the populaceagainst the unhappy king, who, attended by the two Despencers and a fewother friends, fled to Bristol, intending to seek refuge in Ireland.
His departure was the signal for a general uprising of the Londoners,who mobbed the Tower, and set all the prisoners free in the queen'sname. Then Isabella pursued her husband with her army, which had largelyincreased, and laid siege to Bristol. The king shut himself up withthe younger Despencer in the castle, much grieved to see how all hissubjects had turned against him. The older Despencer was seized andbrought before Isabella, who declared "that she should see that law andjustice were {207}executed on him according to his deeds."
"Ah, madam," he replied; "God grant me an upright judge and a justsentence! and that if I cannot find it in this world, I may find it inanother."
The knight was ninety years of age when he made this reply, but that wasof no consequence to Isabella; she had him in her power at last, and wasdetermined to punish him. He was sentenced, and his execution took placewithin sight of his son and the king, who were still shut up in thecastle. So alarmed were they at the old man's tragic fate that theyendeavored to escape to Wales in a little boat. After tossing about forsome days they were driven back by contrary winds to within a mile ofthe castle they had fled from. A knight, observing the efforts of theboatmen, rowed out in his own barge with a strong force to see what wasthe matter, and soon succeeded in capturing the king and his favorite,both of whom were delivered over to the queen as her prisoners.
Now Isabella's evil nature blazed out and showed her real character. Shestarted with all her army for London, having caused Sir Hugh Despencerto be bound to the smallest and meanest horse that could be found,and dressed in his mantle of state, on which was embroidered hiscoat-of-arms. Thus was he led in mockery through all the towns theypassed, his approach being announced by trumpets and cymbals. When theyreached Hereford the royal party were received with great rejoicing, andstopped there to celebrate the feast of All Saints.
The unfortunate Hugh Despencer, who had eaten not a mouthful since themoment of his arrest, now became faint, and Isabella feared that hemight succumb before reaching London. He was, therefore, brought totrial without further delay, and most cruelly put to death.
Several other gentlemen who had in one way or another {208}offendedeither the queen or her friend, Mortimer, were executed in the sameplace.
When the army, which had been increased to an enormous size byvolunteers by the way, arrived in London, great crowds flocked towelcome them, presenting costly gifts to Isabella and some of herfollowers.
On the 7th of January parliament met and decided to remove their absentsovereign, proclaiming the Prince of Wales King of England by the titleof Edward III. When this was made known to the queen she pretended to bevery much distressed, and actually forced herself to shed tears, thoughit was precisely what she had worked for. But she overacted her part,and her counterfeit tears so deceived her son that he made a solemn vownot to accept the crown unless his royal father should willingly resignit to him.
This was awkward; for how could a committee wait upon the king to askhim to abdicate? But young Edward adhered to his resolution, and a dozencommissioners were appointed by Isabella to demand of the fallen monarchhis crown, sceptre, and the rest of the regalia.
They proceeded to Kenilworth Castle, where Edward was kept as a stateprisoner, and in a cruel, heartless manner pointed out to him the errorshe had committed as their reason for desiring him to resign his crown.Edward listened to the mortifying recital and wept bitterly. At lengthhe replied, "that he knew he was punished for his many sins, and wasgrieved for having incurred the hatred of his people. He was glad hiseldest son was so gracious in their sight, and gave them thanks forchoosing him to be their king." Although the poor monarch had faintedduring this interview, he failed to arouse the sympathy of thecommissioners.
Edward II. was by no means a bad man, for his chief {209}faults werethose of judgment, and at times want of dignity, which led him to engagein boyish frolics, and occasionally to drink to excess.
[[A.D. 1326.]] On the following Christmas day, 1326, young King Edward,who was just fifteen years of age, was crowned in Westminster Abbey.Then twelve bishops and nobles were appointed to advise and assist theyouthful sovereign in affairs of state. The queen offered no objection,but as she had the military power in her own hands she made RogerMortimer her prime minister, and demanded an enormous sum of money forher own use. She sent presents and deceitful messages full of affectionto her husband, who in return wrote to request the favor of being oncemore permitted to see her and his son. But Isabella was never softenedtowards him, though she was, to a great extent, the cause of hisunfortunate situation. She was so thoroughly hard-hearted that, when sheheard he was kindly treated at Kenilworth, she had him removed from oneplace to another under the care of two brutal fellows whose crueltieswere too horrible to mention. One night, just a year after the queen'sreturn, Edward II. was put to death by her order in Berkeley Castle, andburied privately. Then the nation became indignant; many of Isabella'sfriends deserted her when they found that they had been the tools of anartful, ambitious, depraved woman, and a strong party was organized toget rid of her. She had committed more crimes in one year than the lateking and his ministers had done in twenty, though she pretended to be areformer.
She was a cruel hypocrite, planning, with the slyness of a cat, thedestruction of each member of the royal family. Knowing that the Earlof Kent was most miserable on account of the part he had taken in herproceedings, she caused somebody to tell him that his brother was notdead, {210}but a prisoner at Corfe Castle. The earl employed a friar toinquire whether this was true.
[Illustration: 0214]
He was assured that it was, and had shown to him at a distance a personseated at a table so disguised as to resemble the dead king. The earlthen went to the castle and requested the governor to conduct him to hisbrother's apartment. The governor did {211}
[Illustration: 0215] {213}not deny that Edward was in the castle, butsaid that he was not permitted to let any one see him, upon which theearl wrote a letter to be conveyed to the supposed prisoner. This letterwas immediately carried to the queen, who used it as a pretence for theearl's arrest, and after an absurd trial he was unjustly condemned todie. His estates passed into the hands of Mortimer's son.
By this time Roger Mortimer had made himself so offensive with hishaughty display and his cruelty that the king had him arrested andlocked up in the Tower. A few days later he was executed with several ofhis friends, and his body hung on the gallows at Tyburn for two days.
Having thus rid himself of his worst enemy, Edward III. ordered hismother to live at Castle Rising, where, with plenty of people to waiton her, and everything to make her comfortable, she passed her timequietly, having no chance to scheme or plot against the government.
There she remained for about twenty-seven years, receiving occasionalvisits from her son, who never permitted her name to be mentioned in hispresence, excepting with great respect.
[[A.D. 1358.]] She died in 1358, and was buried by Edward III. with muchceremony at Grey Friars' Church, her body being attired in the uniformof that order of nuns.
A fine alabaster tomb was erected to her memory, the only inscriptionthereon being:
"ISABELLA REGINA."
{214}



CHAPTER XIII. PHILIPPA OF HAINAULT, QUEEN OF EDWARD III.
(A.D. 1311-1369).
|When Edward, Prince of Wales, was, with his mother, compelled to seekrefuge at the house of the Count of Hainault (of which we have given anaccount in the story of Isabella of France), he fell violently inlove with the count's second daughter, Philippa, and she returned hisaffection. She was only fifteen years of age, and he a few monthsolder, but they formed an attachment that lasted throughout their lives.Philippa was a brilliant Flemish beauty, whose excellent heart andlovable disposition endeared her to all who knew her. Later, as Queenof England, she proved a blessing to that country by the wisdom and goodjudgment she displayed in encouraging manufactures and trade. But beforeshe assumed that position she was doomed to many months of anxiety anduncertainty; for her young lover, after only a fortnight's enjoymentof her society, departed on the dangerous expedition of invading hisfather's kingdom. There was considerable doubt as to whether he wouldever return, because not only were the affairs of his country in such acondition that he could not foretell what turn they might take, but therelatives of both the lovers might interpose many objections to theirunion.
It was not the custom in those days for the heir of England toacknowledge that he had made his choice of a wife without firstconsulting his parliament and councillors,
{215}
[Illustration: 0219]
{217}but young Edward imparted his secret to his mother, and, as she hadtaken a great fancy to pretty Philippa, she promised to aid him as bestshe could. Therefore as soon as possible after her return home she ledthe public authorities to decide that one of the four daughters of theCount of Hainault would be the most desirable alliance for her son, butwithout naming which one. However, we may be very sure that the youngman gave his own private instructions to his messengers, for they madeno mistake in their choice, nor is it likely that he would risk trustingentirely to their discretion as to which of the young Hainault ladieswould prove most worthy to become Queen of England.
The messengers applied first to Sir John, Philippa's uncle, who hadbeen in England fighting the cause of the new king, and requested hisassistance in the selection of a wife for their young sovereign. SirJohn received them with all the honors he could lavish, and gave themthe most sumptuous feasts and splendid entertainments of all sorts.After several days spent in this manner, he conducted them toValenciennes, where they were equally well received at his brother'shouse. A special dispensation was required from the Pope, because thetwo mothers of the lovers were cousins; so messengers were sent toobtain it, which they did without much difficulty.
[[A.D. 1327.]] As soon as Edward heard that all necessary arrangementshad been completed, he ordered the marriage ceremony to be performed atValenciennes, though as he was engaged in a war on the Scottish borderwith the renowned Robert Bruce, he could not be present. In the absenceof the bridegroom, the wedding must have been rather a tame affair,but there was no help for it, and preparations were made for a granddisplay. The costume and equipage of the bride were unusually costly andelegant, {218}no expense or pains being spared to render the festivalworthy of the wealthy country in which it was given.
Afterwards Philippa, accompanied by her Uncle John and a large retinue,proceeded to Dover, and then to London, where a solemn procession of theclergy introduced her into the city, and she was presented by the lordmayor with a service of silver worth three hundred pounds as a marriagegift. The city was illuminated, and there were great rejoicings, feastsand public entertainments of all sorts, that were kept up for threeweeks after the bride's arrival.
She did not stay long in London, however, but hurried on to York to meether husband, being received with honors at every town through which shepassed. All the parliament and royal council assembled at the unionof the young king and his bride, as well as a hundred of the principalnobility of Scotland, who came to conclude a final peace with England.
Nothing is said about the bride's marriage dowry, because thequeen-mother had already got possession of it and spent it. She hadbesides so managed to get hold of the public funds that the youngsovereign of England was nearly penniless. The following summer waspassed by the new couple at Woodstock, the beautiful country residencewhich was the favorite home of Philippa so long as Isabella, thequeen-mother, and Mortimer ruled the kingdom.
Sir John of Hainault returned to his native land laden with jewels andrich presents, almost all of his countrymen accompanying him. Among thefew who remained behind was a youth named Sir Walter Mauny, whose officewas to carve for Philippa. He became one of the first Knights of theGarter, an order established by Edward III., of which we shall hearlater.
[[A.D. 1330.]] The coronation of the young queen did {219}not take placefor nearly two years after her marriage. All the customary duties wereperformed on that occasion, but the ceremony was remarkable for theabsence of display on account of the emptiness of the treasury.
[Illustration: 0223]
The queen-mother, with her favorite, Mortimer, had used up all thepublic funds for their own support, but young Edward was not going tostand such a state of affairs much longer, and before the close ofthe year he had liberated himself from his wicked mother's control andexecuted her favorite.
With the reins of government in his own hands, the young king, aidedby his good and sensible wife, set to work to reform the abuses of hismother's reign and to establish most excellent and satisfactory laws.
Edward had a very violent temper, which would have led him to commitmany an act of cruelty and injustice had it not been for the influenceof his kind-hearted, virtuous wife.
[[A.D. 1330.]] {220}Her eldest son, Edward, surnamed the Black Prince onaccount of the color of the armor he wore in battle, was born whileshe was living at Woodstock, and in celebration of that event a grandtournament was arranged to take place in London. Philippa, with all thenoble ladies, was invited to attend. The preparations were on a muchgrander scale than usual, thirteen knights being engaged on eitherside. The arena was covered with sand to prevent the horses' feet fromslipping; flags and banners were ingeniously arranged as decorations,and a temporary platform was erected and ornamented for theaccommodation of the queen and her ladies. No sooner were they allseated than the scaffolding gave way, and they tumbled pell-mell to theground. Fortunately the platform was not high, and nobody was hurt,but the ladies were terribly frightened, and, for a few moments, theconfusion and excitement were very great.
The king flew into a perfect fury and vowed that the careless carpentersshould instantly be put to death. This was rather a severe sentence,particularly as the damage was slight, and so Philippa considered it,for scarcely had she recovered from her fright than she threw herself onher knees before her angry husband, and pleaded with angelic sweetnessfor the pardon of the poor men. Edward soon became calm under theinfluence of her gentle voice and words, and forgave the offenders.
Up to this time all the wool grown in England had been sent to theNetherlands to be manufactured into cloth, and Philippa remembered whata source of profit and occupation it had been for her own country. Shetherefore set to work to establish a manufacturing colony at Norwich,and a letter was sent to John Kemp of Flanders, cloth-weaver, in whichhe is informed, "that if he will come to England with the servants andapprentices of his mystery, and with {221}his goods and chattels, andwith any dyers who maybe willing to accompany him beyond the seas, andexercise their mysteries in the kingdom of England, they shall haveletters of protection and assistance in their settlement."
[[A.D. 1335.]] He came, and was the patriarch of the Norwich woollenmanufactories. Philippa often visited the colony, which soon broughtconsiderable wealth into the country, encouraging the work by herpatronage, and, like a beneficent queen of the hive cherishing andprotecting the working bees, she made a law that no woollen clothesshould be worn except those made in England. Besides the occupationwhich she thus provided for hundreds of her subjects, this young queendisplayed unusual foresight for a woman of her age in the tournamentexhibitions she held at Norwich, by which she gave the citizensassurance of gallant protection on the part of the nobility in case ofneed. These festivities brought together the workers and the defendersof the nation, and Queen Philippa set them the example of mutualrespect. Edward III. did not often accompany his wife on her visits toNorwich, but usually passed the time of her absence with his unhappymother at Castle Rising.
In 1333 Edward again commenced a furious war on Scotland. His faithfulPhilippa went with him as far as she could, and while he laid siege toBerwick took up her residence at Bamborough Castle. It was during thissiege that the king committed a deed so atrocious that it must foreverbe a dark stain upon his character. Douglas, the defender of Scotland,left King Edward before Berwick and made a forced march to the castlethat contained Queen Philippa, hoping to frighten the king and to forcehim to fly to her assistance. But he was mistaken, for Edward had toomuch confidence in the strength of the castle and the firmness of hiswife to budge. It is probable though {222}that this attempt to capturePhilippa aggravated his ferocious temper and prompted him to the crueldeed to which we have referred. The two young Seatons, sons of theGovernor of Berwick, had been taken as prisoners, and the king hadthem put to death because the father refused to surrender the town. Hisobject was to take Berwick by a desperate blow and fly to the relief ofhis queen, and he succeeded, for the poor grief-stricken father of theSeatons was so perfectly stunned by the infamous murder of his boys,that he could offer no further resistance. Douglas and Edward fought notfar from Benwick, where the former was killed and the king entered thetown in triumph with Philippa at his side.
During the queen's residence in the north of England quite an amusingcircumstance occurred. King Edward had returned from Scotland, and hiswife, who had been separated from him for a long time, went as far asDurham to welcome him back. He lodged at St. Cuthbert's Priory near thecastle. After supper the queen entered her husband's apartments, where,feeling fatigued from her journey, she hoped to have a good night'srest. Scarcely had she undressed than there came a loud knocking at herdoor. Upon opening it several monks presented themselves with a patheticappeal to her not to offend their holy patron St. Cuthbert, who duringhis life avoided the fair sex and would be dreadfully angry if one ofthem, no matter how high her rank, should sleep beneath the roof ofhis convent. The pious Philippa was distressed at the idea of havingunintentionally displeased the saint, and fled in her night-clothes tothe castle, which was fortunately not far away.
[[A.D. 1336.]] About this time Count William of Hainault died of gout,and Edward thus lost the liberal supplies that he had always counted onfrom that source. The English {223}people of that period chose alwaysto be at war; but expected their monarchs to pay the costs. Edward wasreduced to such extreme poverty that he was forced to pledge his wife'scrown for twenty-five hundred pounds, at the beginning of his long war,and during his whole reign the crown jewels were seldom out of pawn. Hehad been engaged in a naval battle with France since his victories inScotland, and in 1340 found himself bankrupt. By that time Philippahad several children, and was residing in the Tower, where she devotedherself to their education with her usual good sense.
Now we must see how Edward was led to establish the Order of the Garter.Wark Castle was under the guardianship of the Earl of Salisbury, who,while King Edward was encamped near Berwick, was taken prisoner. TheCountess of Salisbury was then left alone at the castle with her youngnephew, and it was besieged by the King of Scotland. Becoming alarmed atthe approach of danger she sent the youth to seek assistance of Edwardwho immediately replied in person. At his appearance the siege wasraised, and the countess, to prove her gratitude, ordered the gates tobe thrown open, and received the king with great honors. She courtesiedlow, thanked her preserver warmly for his prompt aid, and conductedhim into the castle, where he and all his knights and attendants wereentertained sumptuously. Everybody was struck with the countess' nobledeportment and affable behavior, and the king was charmed with her graceand beauty.
While he was dancing with her after the banquet she gave in his honorshe unfortunately dropped her garter, and was overcome with confusion,but Edward with his usual gallantry picked it up and, holding it aloft,said: "_Honi soit qui mal y pense_,"
"evil to him who evil thinks." In commemoration of this event, and outof compliment to the {224}countess, he established an order called theKnights of the Garter. The queen attended the first meeting of thisorder at Windsor, on which occasion all the knights were accompanied bytheir ladies, who wore the badge with the motto the king had proposed asa bracelet on their left arm. The object of this order of knighthood wasto assist distressed ladies, and after it was well established the kingannounced his intention of going to the aid of the Countess de Montfort,who was trying to uphold the cause of her infant son against the wholepower of France, while her husband was a prisoner in the tower of theLouvre. He appointed Philippa regent, with the Earl of Kent as herassistant, and departed for France with his son Edward, then onlysixteen years of age. At the battle of Cressy, which had occurred duringthe siege of Calais, this boy proved himself a true hero.
During the king's absence, David of Scotland advanced into England andset fire to the suburbs of York. Philippa hastened in person to therelief of her northern subjects, and took up her residence at Newcastle.On the following day the King of Scots, with forty thousand men, haltedwithin three miles of the town, and sent word to the queen that if hermen were willing he would wait and give them battle. She replied: "thather barons would risk their lives for the realm of their lord, theking."
When her army drew up in order of battle she rode among them mounted onher white charger, entreating the men "to fight manfully for the loveof God." They promised to do the utmost in their power, and the queenwithdrew after commending them "to the protection of God and St.George."
Philippa had the moral courage becoming in a woman, and as soon as shehad done all that a great queen could do for the encouragement of herarmy, she left the battlefield, {225}which was no place for her, andretired to pray for her invaded kingdom.
Her army gained the victory, and King David was taken prisoner by asquire named John Copeland, who rode off with him and refused to givehim up. This displeased Philippa, who the next day wrote to the squirecommanding him to surrender the King of Scots to her forthwith. Hereplied, "that he would not give up his royal prisoner to a woman butonly to his own lord, King Edward, for to him he had sworn allegianceand not to any woman."
The queen was troubled at this obstinacy, and wrote all about it to theking, who ordered John Copeland to come to him at Calais immediately.When Edward saw the squire he took him by the hand, saying: "Ha! welcomemy squire, who by thy valor hast captured mine adversary, the King ofScots."
John Copeland fell on one knee and replied: "If God out of his greatgoodness has given me the King of Scotland, and permitted me to conquerhim in arms, no one ought to be jealous of it, for God can, if Heplease, send His grace to a poor squire as well as to a great lord.Sire, do not take it amiss if I did not surrender King David to theorders of my lady queen, for I hold my lands of _you_ and not of _her_,and my oath is to you and not her, unless indeed through choice."
The king thanked him warmly for his valor, and ordered him to go homeand hand his prisoner, the King of Scotland, over to Philippa, adding,"and I assign lands as near your house as you can choose them to theamount of five hundred pounds a year for you and your heirs." The squireobeyed, and the excuses he made were so acceptable to the queen that shebore him no ill-will. She ordered King David to be conducted in grandprocession through the streets mounted on a tall black war-horse,so that every one {226}might know him and recognize him in case heattempted to escape, and then to be locked up in the Tower of London.Next day, accompanied by a large number of her ladies, she sailed forCalais, where Edward gave a magnificent _fte_ to welcome his victoriousqueen.
Meantime the defenders of Calais were so much reduced by famine thatthey offered to surrender. At first Edward resolved to kill them everyone, but in compliance with the request of Sir Walter Mauny, one ofthe Knights of the Garter, who begged him to be merciful, he softenedsomewhat, and sent this message: "Tell the Governor of Calais thatthe garrison and inhabitants shall be pardoned excepting six of theprincipal citizens, who must surrender themselves to death with ropesround their necks, bareheaded and barefooted, bringing the keys of thetown and castle in their hands."
Sir Walter carried the cruel verdict to the governor. He weptbitterly; he was compelled, however, to break the dreadful news to theinhabitants, who at the loud peals of the alarm-bell assembled in thetown-hall. When they heard the king's message, they broke into loudlamentations of grief and despair. The hardest heart could not havefailed to be touched by such a scene. Men stared at each other, scarcelyknowing what to say or do. After a pause, Eustace St. Pierre, the mostwealthy citizen of Calais, arose and offered himself as one of the sixto make the horrible sacrifice for his fellow-townsmen. Five othersfollowed this noble example amid the blessings and thanks of theassembly, and the number was completed. Mounted on a horse, the governorslowly and solemnly conducted them to the barriers, where Sir WalterMauny awaited them, and said: "I deliver up to you, as Governor ofCalais, these six citizens, and swear to you they are the most wealthyand respectable men of the town. I beg of you, gentle sir, that
{227}
[Illustration: 0231]
{229}you would beseech the king that they may not be put to death."
"I cannot answer what the king will do with them," replied Sir Walter;"but you may depend upon this, that I will do all I can to save them."
All the English nobles wept at the sight of these six gentlemen as theyknelt before the king and begged for compassion, but Edward eyed themangrily and ordered their heads to be struck off forthwith. Some of theknights entreated the king to be more merciful, but he would not listento them, and sternly repeated his order.
At that moment Philippa appeared. Falling on her knees at her husband'sfeet, she looked up into his face with tears in her eyes, and said: "Ah,gentle sir, since I crossed the sea with great peril to see you I havenever asked you one favor; now I most humbly ask as a gift, for the sakeof the son of the blessed Mary, and as a proof of your love to me, thelives of these six men."
King Edward looked at her for some time in silence, then replied: "Ah,lady, I wish you had been anywhere else than here; you have entreated insuch a manner I cannot refuse you. I therefore give them to you--do asyou please with them."
Philippa then conducted the poor men to her own apartments, where theirhalters were removed from their necks and they were served with anexcellent dinner. Afterwards she saw that they were conducted out ofthe camp in safety. The king entered Calais and took possession of thecastle, where proper lodgings had been prepared for himself and hisqueen.
[[A.D. 1348.]] After their return to England, in 1348, an awfulepidemic, called the "black death," visited the kingdom and carried offthe king and queen's second daughter, Johanna, a princess only fifteenyears old, but blessed with {230}so many charms that a number ofminstrels had chosen her for the subject of their verses. What made theevent more than ordinarily sad was, that she was engaged to be married,and her funeral procession occurred at the very time that had been fixedfor the wedding ceremony. This was a great sorrow to the royal couple.So dreadful was the pestilence that every household in London wasafflicted by it, and in some families all the members died..
Before this horrible visitation Philippa had turned her attention to theworking of the coal mines in England, which, like the cloth manufacture,proved an industry of immense profit to the nation, besides enrichingmany private individuals. Wherever this great queen turned herpatronage, prosperity was sure to follow, and her subjects loved andtrusted her.
[[A.D. 1357.]] In 1357 the English gained a grand victory at Poictiers,and the Black Prince returned with many prisoners. Among them was oneBertrand Du Guesclin. One day when Queen Philippa was entertaining ather court a number of the noble French prisoners, the Prince of Walesproposed that Du Guesclin should name his own ransom, adding thatwhatever sum he mentioned should set him free. The warrior named ahundred thousand crowns. The Prince of Wales was astonished at sucha sum, and asked how he could raise it. "I know a hundred knights,"replied Du Guesclin, "in my native Bretagne, who would mortgage theirlast acre rather than have me languish in captivity or be rated belowmy value. Yea, and there is not a woman in France now toiling with herdistaff who would not devote a year's earnings to liberate me, for wellhave I deserved of their sex. And if all the fair spinners of Franceemploy their hands to redeem me, think you, prince, that I shall abidemuch longer with you?"
Queen Philippa, who had listened to this conversation
{231}
[Illustration: 0235]
{233}with great attention, now spoke: "I name," she said, "fiftythousand crowns, my son, as my contribution towards your gallantprisoner's ransom; for though an enemy to my husband, a knight who isfamed for the courteous protection he has afforded to my sex deservesthe assistance of every woman." Du Guesclin threw himself at the feetof the generous queen, saying: "Ah, lady, being the ugliest knight inFrance, I never reckoned on any goodness from your sex excepting thosewhom I protected with my sword, but your bounty will make me think lessdespicably of myself." Philippa, like all great women, honored those menwho paid most reverence to her own sex.
After a lingering illness, she sent for the king one day when she knewthat death was approaching. Taking his hand in her own, she asked him togrant her three requests. He promised in advance with tears rollingdown his cheeks. "My lord," she said, "I beg you will fulfil whateverengagements I have made with the merchants for their wares, as well onthis as on the other side of the sea; I beseech you to fulfil whatevergifts or legacies I have made or left to churches and to all myservants, whether male or female; and when it shall please God to callupon you hence, you will choose no other sepulchre than mine, and thatyou will lie by my side in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey." The kingreplied: "Lady, all this shall be done."
[[A.D. 1369.]] Shortly after she died, and with her life departed thehappiness, good fortune and even respectability of Edward III. and hisfamily. Where Philippa had once promoted virtue, justice and wisdom,scenes of folly, strife and sorrow now followed at court. One of thechroniclers of the time says: "I firmly believe that her spirit wascaught by holy angels and carried to the glory of Heaven, for she hadnever done anything by thought or deed to endanger her soul."
{234}



CHAPTER XIV. ANNE OF BOHEMIA, SURNAMED THE GOOD, FIRST QUEEN OF RICHARDII.
(A.D. 1367-1394.)
|The marriage of King Richard II. with Anne of Bohemia gave generalsatisfaction in England, and proved a happy one in every respect. At thecoronation, which followed a few days after, the young bride receivedthe title of "the good Queen Anne." It pained her to see the distress ofthe unhappy peasantry caused by the bloodshed and barbarous executionsthat had been the result of Wat Tyler's insurrection. She compared theirmiserable lot with her own bright and joyous one, and was thus promptedto ask a great favor of the king. Having first convinced herselfthat she would not be refused, she demanded a general pardon for allmalefactors. Her mediation came in time to save the life of many anunfortunate creature, and sent a thrill of happiness through scores ofafflicted households. No wonder then that she was called "good QueenAnne," but what was better still, she never forfeited the title.
Queen Anne was not a beauty, but at the age of sixteen, when she becameKing Richard's wife, she was a blooming, healthy girl, with a clear,fresh complexion and bright eyes. She had a high, narrow forehead,long upper lip and fat cheeks, but the remarkable head-dress she woreneutralized these defects somewhat. It was a cap two feet high andequally wide, scooped out at the top so as to leave two high pointsresembling horns. This structure was made of wire and pasteboard,covered with a silky gauze. Though
{235}
[Illustration: 0239]
{237}hideously ugly and excessively uncomfortable, it was universallyadopted by the English ladies in compliment to the queen, whose tastemust have been somewhat defective if she was responsible for the deviceor crest she used, and required all her knights to wear at tournaments.It consisted of an ostrich, that most ungraceful of birds, with a bit ofiron in his mouth. But Queen Anne introduced two articles into Englandthat were no doubt gratefully received; one was the ordinary pinwhich we of the present day consider indispensable; the other was theside-saddle, not such as we are accustomed to, but a bench with a stepsuspended on which the rider's two feet were placed. This mode ofriding may have been comfortable, but the horse had to be led by a groombecause it was impossible for a lady to handle the reins herself.
[[A.D. 1384.]] At a festival of the Order of the Garter, in 1384, QueenAnne wore a robe of violet cloth lined with fur, with a hood of thesame material faced with red. All her ladies were similarly attired. Theking, who was quite a dandy, wore on that occasion, a coat embroideredin precious stones that cost thirty thousand marks. In this reign theshoes had long-pointed toes of an absurd length fastened to the kneeswith gold or silver chains, that must have been quite an annoyance tothe wearer. But Richard II. was very luxurious in his tastes and so fondof spending money, that extravagant costumes were invented to pleasehim, regardless of taste or convenience.
Anne of Bohemia did not spend all her time in frivolous amusements, forshe read the Scriptures in her native tongue, and may be considered oneof the mothers of the Reformation. It is possible that she may have beeninfluenced by her mother-in-law, Joanna, the Princess of Wales, whomshe loved very much, but certain it is that when John Wickliffe was indanger of his life, at the council of {238}Lambeth, in 1382, both theseroyal ladies implored King Richard to aid in saving that reformer'slife.
A war in Scotland called the king from home when he had been marrieda little over a year, and while he was away, his half-brother, JohnHolland, murdered Lord Stafford. The cause of this dreadful crime wasjealousy. Stafford was a soldier of such high and noble character thathe was a great favorite with the whole English army, and so chivalrousthat the queen called him "her knight." It was when on his way withmessages from the king to Anne that the encounter, which resulted in thedeath of the honored earl, took place. John Holland had noticed him, formany months, with increasing envy, which led him, at last, to slay onewho had not given the slightest provocation for a quarrel. The father ofStafford was so distressed at the atrocious murder of his dearly-belovedson, that King Richard, prompted by the old man's demand for justice,vowed his brother's life should pay the forfeit of his deed. MeanwhileHolland had fled to the shrine of St. John of Beverly, and kept out ofthe way until the king returned from Scotland. Then Joanna, Princessof Wales, mother of Richard and John Holland, pleaded, with tears andlamentations, to one son for the life of another. Before it was granted,she died, and the king, unable to refuse her last request, pardoned thecriminal, who started, at once, on an atoning pilgrimage to Syria.
The queen was called upon to act as mediator again in 1387, after thedefeat of the royal troops by the Duke of Gloucester and young Henry ofBolingbroke. The Archbishop of Canterbury was then sent to the king topropose a treaty of peace, but was absolutely refused admittance to hismajesty's presence until the queen persuaded her husband to yield. Afterthe interview the royal household removed from Bristol, where it hadbeen established for several months, to London.
and actually went on her knees to plead for the life of John Calverly,one of her esquires, but to no avail. That parliament was called "themerciless," and merited the title.
[Illustration: 0243]
The succeeding two years were passed by the royal couple at Shene,a favorite summer residence because of the beauty of the surroundinglandscape.
[[A.D. 1389.]] At the meeting of parliament in 1389 {239}the Duke ofGloucester, with his adherents, established a reign of terror that madefidelity to the king and queen an offence. Several members of QueenAnne's household were selected as victims, principally because theyfavored the cause of the Reformation and read the works of Wickliffe andLollard. The queen spared no pains in trying to save her friends, ard{240}asked them, "how old he was."
"Twenty-two," was the reply, whereupon he declared that his ancestorshad been considered of age much earlier, and it was therefore hisintention to submit to control no longer. A sort of recoronation thentook place at St. Stephen's Chapel, when the nobility renewed theiroaths to the young sovereign, who thenceforth governed the kingdomhimself.
A splendid tournament was held in honor of this event, over which QueenAnne presided. Sixty of her ladies, mounted on fine horses, each led bya knight, rode, to the sound of the trumpets, and attended by a trainof minstrels, through the streets of London. When they arrived at thetilting-grounds at Smithfield, they passed before the queen, who wasalready seated on a richly decorated stand, then placed themselves oneither side of her. The prizes consisted of a richly jewelled claspand a gold crown, which the queen presented to the victors with her ownhands. At the close of the match, a fine banquet was served, succeededby dancing, which was kept up until a late hour in the night.
[[A.D. 1392.]] In 1392 King Richard applied to the citizens of Londonfor a loan of a thousand pounds. It was refused, but a wealthy Italiancame forward and offered the whole of the sum, whereupon a mob set uponthe unfortunate money-lender and tore him to pieces. Such a formidableriot was the result of this outrage that Richard took away the citycharter and removed the law courts to York. This was a dilemma that hadnot been counted on, and occasioned so much distress and disturbancethat Queen Anne was again called upon to act as mediator. This time shemerely persuaded her husband to make a public
passage through London with her, trusting to the citizens to do theirpart, which she would follow up with her request at the proper moment.{241}The king, with his escort, appeared first in the procession, thenfollowed the queen and her ladies. She wore her crown, a robe ofrich velvet, and a large collar of precious stones that blazed in thesunlight as she moved along. The procession halted at Southwark bridge,where it was welcomed by the lord-mayor and other authorities, followedby representatives of every branch of trade carrying various devices.There the king was presented with a pair of snow-white horses, coveredwith trappings of gold cloth to which silver bells were attached. Thequeen received a beautiful white palfrey, and after listening to along speech by the lord mayor, the procession moved on. All the streetsthrough which they passed were hung with flags, banners and richtapestry, the public fountains flowed with wine. At different pointsbands of music and singers were stationed, the latter strewing thepath with fresh flowers as the royal couple approached. Some rare andvaluable gifts were presented, among which was a tablet set in jewelswith the crucifixion engraved thereon. The king took it in his hand andsaid: "Peace be to this city!" Another was handed to the queen bearing arequest that she would not fail to plead for the king's pardon. She casther eyes over it and said, with a confident air, "leave all to me."
On arriving at Westminster Palace, the king entered first, andproceeding to the great hall, mounted the throne, sceptre in hand, andawaited the arrival of the queen and the rest of the procession. Afterall had assembled, her majesty knelt at the feet of her royal spouseand in a firm, clear voice made an humble and loving appeal that thecharters and liberties of his penitent subjects might be restored.
"Be satisfied, dearest wife," answered Richard, taking her hand andraising her from her lowly position, "loth should we be to deny theeany reasonable request. Meantime ascend, and sit beside me on my throne,while I speak a few words to my people." {242}His majesty then addressedthe lord-mayor, thanked him for the exhibition of loyalty that had beenmade that day, as well as for the costly presents made to himself andhis wife, bade him keep the peace of the city, and handed him back thekey and sword of his office. This reconciliation cost the city tentimes as much as the loan their sovereign had required. King Richard waspreparing for a campaign in Ireland in the June of 1394 when his belovedwife was taken from him. She died at Shene, and in the bitterness of hisgrief, unable to bear the sight of the palace in which he had spent somany happy hours with his late companion, Richard had it destroyed.
The body of Anne of Bohemia was carried in grand procession to Londonand buried at Westminster.
King Richard went to Ireland shortly after, and frequently in thecouncil-chamber of Dublin when anything recalled his "good Queen Anne"to his thoughts he suddenly would burst into tears and leave the room.
[Illustration: 0246]
{243}



CHAPTER XV. ISABELLA OF VALOIS, SURNAMED THE LITTLE QUEEN, SECOND WIFEOF RICHARD II.
(A. D. 1387-1410.)
|It seems strange that when Richard II. reached the age of thirty heshould have had a fancy to share his throne with a child of nine, yetthat was the age of Isabella of Valois, when he married her.
She was the eldest daughter of Charles VI. of France and the wickedIsabeau of Bavaria; but fortunately she inherited nothing from hermother but her beautiful dark eyes and clear olive complexion; hergoodness and lovely character she got from her father.
When Richard was told that Isabella was too young for him, he replied:"that every day would remedy the deficiency of age, and her youth wasone of his reasons for preferring her, because he should educate her tohis own mind, to the manners and customs of the English; and that, asfor himself, he was young enough to wait for her."
[[A.D. 1396.]] When the English ambassadors waited on Isabella tosolicit her hand for Richard, one of them dropped upon his knees andsaid: "Madam, if it please God, you shall be our lady and queen."Without any prompting, the little maid replied; "Sir, if it please Godand my lord and father that I be Queen of England, I shall be pleasedthereat, for I have been told I shall then be a great lady."
Her appearance and manners were very pleasing, and {244}from thetime when it was proposed that she should marry Richard, she began topractise how to behave as queen, though she could not prepare herselffor the sad experience that awaited her in that exalted position.
King Richard went to Paris, attended by a retinue of the first noblemenof his realm, to claim his little wife. At a magnificent dinner given bythe King of France, the last of a series of entertainments that had beenheld in honor of his royal guest, Isabella was presented to her futurelord. Then, attended by her parents and the whole court, she wasconveyed in a rich litter to Calais, where the marriage ceremony wasperformed by the Archbishop of Canterbury. "The little queen," asIsabella was called from that time, made a public entry into London afew days later, when many rich and beautiful gifts were presented toher.
The bride's marriage portion consisted of 800,000 francs in gold. Hertrousseau was magnificent; among the garments was a robe and mantle suchas had never been seen in England for costliness. It was composed ofcrimson velvet, embossed with solid gold birds, perched on branches ofreal pearls and emeralds. Down each side was a border of miniver, therewas a cape and hood of the same fur, and the mantle was lined throughoutwith ermine. Another robe was light blue velvet, embroidered with pearlroses; the little lady had besides coronets, rings, necklaces, andbuckles worth a large sum of money and beautiful enough to delight theheart of any girl. Her bedroom curtains were of red and white satin withembroidered figures. Isabella was crowned at Westminster in 1397, whenshe was just ten years old; then she went to reside at Windsor, whereher education was continued under the guidance of Lady de Courcy.
King Richard made frequent visits to his little wife, each
{245}
[Illustration: 0249]
{247}one being the occasion of a holiday from study, and of a great dealof pleasure to the child who anticipated the appearance of her lord withno little impatience. Richard was always courteous and gentle in hismanners towards ladies, and had a lively disposition, which renderedhim a very congenial companion; besides, he dressed with such exquisitetaste that the admiration he inspired in the heart of Isabella warmedinto an affection that she never ceased to entertain for him as long ashe lived.
When King Richard went to France to claim his bride, he spent so muchmoney that he found himself deeply involved in debt. This led toa fierce struggle with the party headed by his uncle, the Duke ofGloucester, and the Earl of Arundel. At last Richard would bear it nolonger, so he managed to rid himself of both his opponents. This hedid by having the duke treacherously murdered, and the earl illegallyexecuted.
But Richard was not accustomed to such cruel deeds, and his consciencetroubled him to such a degree that he would often start up from his bedat night and cry out in horror: "That his bed was covered with theblood of the earl." The sudden death of Roger Mortimer, lord deputy ofIreland, to whom Richard was warmly attached, called him to that countryto quell the rebellion that ensued.
Before his departure he went to Windsor to bid farewell to Isabella;while there he dismissed Lady de Courcy on account of excessiveextravagance, and appointed his widowed niece, Lady Mortimer, in herstead, as governess and first lady of honor to his young consort.
The parting scene between the royal couple was very touching, theking lifting his wife up in his arms and kissing her repeatedly whileoffering words of hope and comfort.
Henry of Bolingbroke, who had been absent from England {248}for severalyears, returned while Richard was away,--a most unfortunate circumstancefor the royal cause. The Duke of York, who acted as regent in the king'sabsence, was alive to the little queen's position, and hurried her offto the fortress of Wallingford.
Attended by sixty thousand fighting men, Henry of Bolingbroke marchedthrough England and presented himself before the very gates of FlintCastle, where Richard, with a handful of faithful knights, had fortifiedhimself. Upon Henry's boldly demanding admittance the king agreed toallow him, with eleven others, to pass the wicket of the castle. Butit was soon evident that any such precaution was unnecessary, for onlooking out of the window the king beheld the army that had come tobesiege him, and surrendered himself at once.
While King Richard and Henry of Bolingbroke stood in the courtyard ofthe castle waiting for their horses, Math, the beautiful greyhound thatalways accompanied the king when he rode out, and would never follownor notice anyone else, suddenly dashed through the court, leaped uponHenry, and put both paws on his shoulders, as he had been wont to doto the king. Henry asked the meaning of his being thus selected for theanimal's caresses. "Cousin," replied the king sadly, "it means a greatdeal for you, and very little for me; for the natural instinct of myfavorite dog prompts him to fondle and pay his court to you as King ofEngland, which you will be, and I shall be deposed."
Richard was taken to London and lodged in the Tower, where he sufferedtorment because he could get no information as to the fate of hisIsabella. After a time he offered to resign his crown to Henry ofBolingbroke, now called the Duke of Lancaster, but received only tauntsand reproaches in reply. Meanwhile "the little queen" had been removedfrom Wallingford to Leeds Castle in Kent. {249}At the next sessionof parliament, the members remained seated at Westminster Hall, whileHenry, with a number of priests, dukes, and earls rode to the Tower,dismounted in the courtyard and entered the Hall. Then King Richard, onbeing summoned, walked in with his crown upon his head and the sceptrein his hand, and addressed the assembly as follows: "I have reignedKing of England, Duke of Aquitaine, and Lord of Ireland about twenty-twoyears; which royalty, lordship, sceptre, and crown, I now freely andwillingly resign to my cousin, Henry of Lancaster, and entreat of himin the presence of you all to accept this sceptre." The king was thenconducted back to his apartments in the Tower, and the crown and sceptrewere safely locked away in the treasury of Westminister Abbey.
The following October, Henry of Lancaster assembled parliament, and wascrowned with great ceremony as Henry IV. Isabella had been removed toSunning Hill, where she was treated as a state prisoner, and kept inignorance of the fate of her husband.
Shortly after the coronation of Henry IV. a plot against his life wasdiscovered, and then the fate of poor Richard was sealed, as we shallsee.
Henry's attendants kept constantly reminding him, by hints andinsinuations, that as long as Richard lived he could not reignpeaceably, until worn out with care and anxiety he wearily asked one daywhile sitting at table: "Have I no faithful friend who will deliver meof one whose life will be my death, and whose death my life?" After sucha speech from the king it was not likely that Richard's life would longbe spared. His attendants began to treat him with so little ceremonyat last that the royal prisoner remarked upon it one day when he wasdining; whereupon he was informed that King Henry had given new orders.
"The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee together!" {250}exclaimedRichard in a passion, striking the attendant who had answered with acarving-knife. At that instant eight armed men rushed into the room;Richard started up, seized the weapon that the one nearest to him, held,and defended himself so valiantly that four of the attacking party wereslain outright. Then while he was fiercely warding off the blows ofthree others, the leader of the band jumped upon the chair Richard hadoccupied while dining, and dealt him a blow on the back of his head thatkilled him instantly.
[[A.D. 1339.]] Thus fell the son of the Black Prince at the early age ofthirty-two, and Queen Isabella was made a widow before she was thirteen.
The King of France was suffering from an attack of insanity, thereforecould take no steps for the restoration of his daughter, but the Frenchcouncil requested Henry IV. to allow her to return to her native land.He refused, saying "that she should reside in England, as all otherqueen-dowagers had done, in great honor; and that if she had unluckilylost a husband she should be provided with another who would be young,handsome, and in every way deserving of her love, that person beingno other than the Prince of Wales." But Isabella mourned her murderedspouse so sincerely that she rejected the gallant Henry of Monmouth andno longer felt any pride in being Queen of England.
When Charles VI. recovered, he sent ambassadors to inquire into thecondition of his daughter in England, and to make arrangements for herreturn. But it was not until late in July, eighteen months after thedeath of Richard II. that his widow was restored to her parents. Henryhad seized her jewels and dower, and refused to give them up.
[[A.D. 1402.]] The goodness and amiable disposition of the youthfulqueen had won the affection of her English ladies, and when she partedfrom them they wept so much
{251}
[Illustration: 0255]
{253}that she was obliged to comfort them, though she, too, was intears.
In 1406 Henry IV. again proposed for the hand of Isabella for the Princeof Wales, declaring that if the marriage could be brought about he wouldabdicate the English crown in favor of his son. But the little queen hadmeanwhile promised to marry her cousin, Charles of Angoulme, sun ofthe Duke of Orleans. An unfavorable answer was therefore given to theEnglish ambassadors, who were very much displeased at their failure.
Isabella was not married to her cousin until the murder of his father bythe Duke of Burgundy made him Duke of Orleans.
[[A.D. 1410.]] She loved him dearly, and lived happily with him fornearly two years, but she was only a little more than twenty-one whenher death occurred. This Duke of Orleans was a celebrated poet, whosecompositions are still read in France. We quote one written shortlyafter his sad bereavement, but it is much prettier in the originalFrench:--
                        "Alas!
               Death, who made thee so bold,
               To take from me my lovely princess?
               Who was my comfort, my life,
               My good, my pleasure, my riches.
               Alas! I am lonely, bereft of my mate
               Adieu, my lady, my lily!
               Our loves are forever severed."
{254}



CHAPTER XVI. JOANNA OF NAVARRE, QUEEN OF HENRY IV.
(A.D. 1370-1437.)
|It was to the Duke of Bretagne, Joanna of Navarre's first husband,that Henry IV. was partly indebted for his elevation to the throneof England. Henry was an exile when Richard II. was obliged to go toIreland, and finding that a clear field was thus left for his return,he applied to the Duke of Bretagne for advice and assistance, and wasunhesitatingly provided by him with vessels, soldiers, and arms. The usehe made of them is recounted in the last reign.
Joanna, the duke's wife, met Henry of Bolingbroke, the first time whenhe was making his preparations for this expedition to England, and wasvery much pleased with his beauty and attractive manners.
[[A.D. 1401.]] When she had been a widow for two years, and Henry wasestablished on the throne, she willingly accepted an offer of hishand in marriage. He had then been a widower since 1394, when Anne ofBohemia, his first wife, died.
Joanna of Navarre agreed to marry Henry IV., but she had a family ofchildren, and before going to England she had to provide for them.She knew that it would be unwise to take her sons with her, and as theeldest had succeeded to his father's title, the people of Bretagne wouldnaturally object to his making England his home, so she entered into atreaty with her uncle, the Duke of Burgundy,
{255}
[Illustration: 0259]
{257}who faithfully swore to preserve the laws, liberties and privilegesof the Bretons. Thereupon the little duke and his two brothers, Arthurand Jules, were placed under his care, and taken to Paris to live.
[[A.D. 1402.]] The two daughters accompanied their mother to Winchester,where King Henry awaited her. The marriage was publicly solemnized atthe church, of St Swithin, and afterwards there was a splendid feast.The citizens of London made costly preparations to receive the bride,whose coronation took place Feb. 26, 1403, nearly three weeks after herlanding in England.
Joanna was thirty-three years old at that time, but she was stillhandsome, majestic, and graceful; she was, besides, a woman of excellentcommon sense, but excessively avaricious. Indeed, this besetting sin notonly prompted her to make unjust demands on her subjects, and to acceptunlawful bribes, but also prevented her from performing those deeds ofcharity that one reasonably expects from people in lofty positions.
The festivities that succeeded the coronation were rudely interruptedby an attack of the Bretons on the merchant shipping along the coast ofCornwall. This made the queen distasteful to her new subjects at once,though as her own son, the Duke of Bretagne, was then entirely underthe influence of the Duke of Burgundy, it was the French who wereresponsible for the attack. Then followed the Percy rebellion and thebattle of Shrewsbury, where the king so nearly lost his life.
[[A.D. 1404]] Joanna further increased her unpopularity by filling herpalace with her former subjects, an error that many Queens of Englandhad made before her. But in this instance it was soon rectified, for theHouse of Commons took the matter in hand and cleared the royal householdof nearly all the Breton servants. As the king {258}was well aware thatthe voice of the people had secured for him his position, he dared notinterfere.
[Illustration: 0262]
Three years after she had ascended the throne of England, Joanna wascalled upon to part with her daughters, because their brother, whosesubjects they were, claimed them.
{259}
[Illustration: 0263]
{261}He had a husband provided for each, and they were married soonafter their return to France.
[[A.D. 1413.]] The death of Henry IV., which occurred in 1413, leftJoanna again a widow. His interview with the Prince of Wales, duringwhich he resigns his crown and offers most excellent advice, iscorrectly given in the fifth act of Shakespeare's Henry IV.
When the new king, Henry V., ascended the throne, he treated hisstepmother with every mark of attention and respect, so much so thatwhen he started on his expedition against France she was appointedregent in his absence.
[[A.D. 1415.]] The Duke of Bretagne took no part in this contest; butQueen Joanna's second son, Arthur, made the first attack on Henry'scamp, at the head of two thousand French cavalry, near Agincourt. It wasmidnight on the eve of St. Crispin's day and a violent storm was ragingwhen the assault was made. It resulted in victory for the English;Arthur was wounded and taken prisoner.
It was with an aching heart that Queen Joanna was called upon to receivethe royal victor when all England rejoiced at his return; for herson-in-law and her brother had both been killed at the battle ofAgincourt, and her son, Arthur, was brought to her kingdom in chains.She had been separated from the boy for twelve years, and now she wasonly permitted to give him a fond embrace, and then see him consigned tothe gloomy Tower. Although Henry continued for a time to treat the queenwith consideration, he would listen to no proposition or entreaty ofhers for Arthur's release.
[[A.D. 1419.]] At last, on an accusation of witchcraft, preferredagainst Joanna by her confessor, who declared that she was planningwith two sorcerers who were dealing with the powers of darkness for thedestruction of the king, she {262}was committed to Pevensey Castle as aprisoner. Henry V. gave the queen no opportunity of justifying herself,but no attempt of hers on his life was ever proved.
[[A.D. 1422]] Her money was all appropriated by King Henry, and she didnot regain her liberty until his death was at hand; then his consciencesmote him, and he did his utmost to make amends.
Joanna lived many years to enjoy her restored liberty and kept her courtchiefly at Havering Bower, surrounded by all the luxuries that wealthcould procure.
She died in 1437, and was buried at Canterbury Cathedral beside HenryIV.
[Illustration: 0266]
{263}



CHAPTER XVII. KATHERINE OF VALOIS, SURNAMED THE FAIR, WIFE OF HENRY V.
(A.D. 1401-1437.)
|Charles VI., King of France, and his wife, Queen Isabeau of Bavaria,had eight children, three sons and five daughters, of whom Katherine wasthe youngest. The boys became in turn Dauphins of France; Isabella, theeldest of the family, was married to Richard II. when she was only eightyears of age, and had an experience throughout her short life such ashas never been recorded of so young a girl. But she proved herself adevoted wife, and bore her sufferings with true heroism. She died whenKatherine was only nine years old. Two of the daughters of Charles VI.became duchesses, Marie entered a convent, and the two little ones,Michelle and Katherine, at the respective ages of three and five, wefind shut up in the dismal Htel de St. Paul with their brothers andtheir infirm father.
Queen Isabeau was one of the most wicked women that ever lived, for shenot only joined her brother-in-law, the Duke of Orleans, in stealing therevenues of the royal household, thus leaving her husband and childrenwith no means of support, but she neglected them most criminally, andthen, for a long time, deserted them. The poor king was insane, whichfact in itself would have kept any true wife at his side, but hisguilty, wretched consort deserved neither the title of wife normother, for she neglected her duty as both. Her daughters inherited hersplendid, large, dark eyes, as veil as her clear, brilliant complexion,but, {264}fortunately for themselves and others, none of her wickedness.
While at the Htel de St. Paul these poor little children were almoststarved to death, and as their mother had left them without a change oflinen they ran about in filthy rags. Some of the inferior attendantsof the palace had compassion enough to give them a little food, but theservants of the royal family were left without money, consequently theyneither could nor would provide for the children. Their condition musthave been pitiable, indeed, but God watched over them, and as by amiracle their father's reason suddenly returned to him one day. For along while he had been totally unconscious of the misery that surroundedhim. What must have been the agony of the good man when he beheld hisown plight and that of his innocent, forsaken little ones? It makesone shudder at the thought. But it had a different effect on the cruel,infamous Isabeau; for no sooner did she hear that her husband's reasonwas restored than she began to tremble for her own safety, as well shemight. She therefore hurried away to Milan, and ordered her brotherLouis, who was as bad as she, to bring the children to her.
He obeyed, and not only carried off the five royal children but alsothose of the Duke of Burgundy. Their absence was soon discovered, andthe duke sent a troop of armed men after them, who overtook them beforethey had got very far. After securing the children of both families themen turned respectfully to the Dauphin Louis, then only ten years old,and asked him "whither he would please to go."
"I will return to my royal father," replied the boy. He was eagerlyobeyed and carried back to Paris with his companions.
Later, Isabeau got possession of the little Katherine, but her conductbecame so infamous that she was imprisoned,{265}
[Illustration: 0269]
excellent education. At the age of ten he played the harp well, and wasextremely fond of music. Later in life he performed on the organand composed sacred airs. After his mother's death, Richard II. tookpossession of the boy, who then lived at the palace, until he was placedat Oxford to complete his studies.
He was only sixteen years old when he fought at the bar {267}and thechild was sent to a convent to be educated. We will leave her there fora while to tell something about Henry V., who became her husband.
[Illustration: 0271]
[[A.D. 1387.]] He was born in 1387, and was a very sickly infant, but hehad a devoted mother, who took such good care of him that he soon grewstrong. She gave him his first lessons in Latin, and he was afterwardsblessed with an title {268}of Shrewsbury, where he proved himself a braveprince. He advanced too rashly on the enemy, and received a seriouswound in the face that left a scar to the end of his life. On beingadvised to retire that the point of the arrow might be taken out, "Towhat place?" he asked, "who will remain fighting, if I, the prince,a king's son, retire for fear at the first taste of steel? let myfellow-soldiers see that I bleed at the first onset; for deeds,not words, are the duties of princes who should set the example ofboldness."
Henry V. was extremely poor while he was Prince of Wales; but that didnot prevent his enjoying himself, even though his dissipations, andrecklessness forced him into company far beneath him in rank. He wasat times so pushed for money that he would disguise himself as ahighwayman, and lie in wait for the collectors of the rents due thecrown and rob them. Sometimes he got soundly beaten himself, but healways rewarded those officers who made the boldest fight. He knew howto appreciate faithfulness, even when it told against himself.
He performed some of the wildest pranks when he lived at a manor nearCoventry. On one occasion he and some of his friends were arrested bythe mayor of that town for raising a riot, and this was not the onlytime that he was locked up in jail. The young nobles found that theycould have so much liberty and fun at "Prince Hal's" house that theypreferred it to the king's court. This made Henry IV. quite jealous attimes, but it did not prevent their flocking to the manor and enjoyingtheir mad frolics. During one of these, a favorite servant of the princewas arrested and taken before Judge Gascoigne. No sooner did Henry hearof it than he rushed to the court of justice, where the servant stoodawaiting his trial. Walking boldly up to the man he endeavored to removehis chains; the judge interfered, whereupon the prince boxed his ears{269}soundly. Such an outrage caused great indignation on the partof Gascoigne; who not only reproved the young man as he deserved, butactually had him locked up in the prison of the King's Bench. No doubtthe prince regretted that he had allowed his temper to get the better ofhis common sense; for, after he had taken time to reflect, he submittedwith a good grace to his well-merited punishment. When Henry IV. heardof this occurrence, he said: "he was proud of having a son who wouldthus submit himself to the laws, and that he had a judge who could sofearlessly enforce them."
For a long time the king had been trying to get a wife for his wild son,no doubt with the hope that marriage would improve his bad behavior.Several ladies had been proposed, but in each case something happened toprevent an engagement. At last both father and son seemed determined onobtaining the fair Katherine for the lofty station of Princess of Wales.The Duke of York was sent on a private mission to demand her hand inmarriage for Prince Henry, and while he was absent the king died.
A short but fierce civil war had to be fought before Henry V. could takepossession of the throne, because somebody raised a report that RichardII., who would have succeeded, was still alive. In order to restorepeace, Henry was obliged to have Richard's corpse paraded throughthe streets. It was carried in a chair of state adorned with regalornaments, Henry walking by its side, and all the court following. Aftera solemn ceremony it was safely laid away in Westminster Abbey, andtranquillity returned.
Then the new king made another application for the hand of PrincessKatherine, at the same time demanding the enormous dowry of two millionsof crowns and all the southern provinces of France.
Charles VI. tried to compromise,--and offered 450,000 {270}crowns. Thisthe English lover refused with disdain. In fact, he wanted an excuse forinvading France, so resolved to fight for Katherine the Fair, and to winher, as well as the gold and the provinces he had demanded, at the pointof the sword. In order to raise money for this expedition he had to sellor pawn all the valuables he owned, but his ambition was aroused and henever doubted that "the game was worth the candle."
From Southampton Henry V. sent a letter to the King of France warninghim of his intended invasion, and adding that if the southern provincesand the hand of Katherine were not bestowed on him at once he would takethem by force.
The king replied: "If that was his mind he would do his best to receivehim; but as to the marriage he thought it would be a strange way ofwooing Katherine, covered with the blood of her countrymen." This answermight have had a favorable effect on the young king had not the DauphinLouis excited his anger by sending him a cask of tennis balls, saying,"that they were fitter playthings for him, according to his formercourse of life, than the provinces he demanded."
"These balls," replied Henry, making an angry pun, "shall be struck backwith such a racket as shall force open the Paris gates."
[[A.D. 1415.]] He left Southampton in August, 1415, and after a furiousbattle took possession of Harfleur in October. In the winter he finishedhis campaign by the victory of Agincourt, which shed everlasting gloryon his name. But it was a sad day for the enemy. France was thrown intoa dreadful panic by the number of her nobles and princes that wereslain at that battle. The Dauphin Louis is said to have died of grief onaccount of it; but when, shortly after, his death was followed bythat of his brother, there was a report that the unnatural Isabeau hadpoisoned both her sons. {271}The malady of poor King Charles returnedwith so many misfortunes, and his wicked wife, taking advantage of theconfusion in the country, made her escape from prison. She then joinedthe Duke of Burgundy, took the reins of government in her own hands, andobtained control of her beautiful daughter Katherine.
Strange to say, although this woman had so shamefully neglected herchildren when they most required her care, she became quite proud ofKatherine when she saw her such a lovely young woman, and soon exerciseda surprising influence over her. The young princess had set her heart onbecoming Queen of England, and in this her mother heartily seconded her.
When Henry V. was laying siege to Rouen Isabeau sent him a picture ofKatherine by an ambassador, who was to ask him, "whether so beautiful aprincess required such a great dowry as he demanded with her?" The kinggazed long and earnestly on the portrait, and acknowledged that it wassuprisingly fair, but refused to diminish his demands in the least.
[[A.D. 1418.]] At last the city of Rouen fell. France was in a stateof despair, and the queen resolved to try what effect Katherine herselfwould have on the proud heart of the conqueror, since her picture hadfailed to satisfy him. A truce was therefore obtained and a conferenceappointed at a town called Pontoise.
The poor crazy king, with the queen and Katherine, came to the place ofmeeting in a richly ornamented barge. There was a large enclosure madewith planks on the banks of the river Seine; outside were tents andpavilions covered with blue and green velvet worked with gold. Some ofthese were occupied by the King and Queen of France, the Princess, theDuke of Burgundy, his council and a thousand soldiers. Then the Kingof England {272}arrived with his two brothers and his escort ofmen-at-arms, and took possession of the remaining tents.
When the conference was about to commence the queen entered theenclosure from the right side followed by Katherine. The King of Englandentered from the left, advanced towards the queen, whom he saluted withprofound respect, and kissed her as well as the princess. He then tookhis seat opposite, while the Earl of Warwick made a long speech inFrench. Some time was spent in discussion, when the parties took leaveof each other and separated, leaving everything as unsettled as before.Three weeks later the same personages, with the exception of Katherine,met for another conference on the same spot. Finding that her daughter'sbeauty had not induced the conqueror to lower his demands, QueenIsabeau would not permit Katherine to be present the second time. Thisarrangement displeased Henry very much, for he was desperately in lovewith the handsome dark-eyed princess. Still he remained firm, and thesecond conference ended as unsatisfactorily as the first had done.
Hoping that the family of his beloved would send some flatteringmessages, Henry waited a few days; but losing patience at last hedemanded a third interview. He had now made up his mind that he wouldbe satisfied with something less than he had at first required, and feltcertain that he would only have to open his arms to receive his prettylady-love. But lo, to his great surprise and disappointment, on arrivingat Pontoise he found the tents removed, the fence that marked theenclosure torn down, and all the planks taken away, showing plainlythat the marriage treaty was supposed to be at an end. It served himright, but he looked upon himself as the injured party, and flew intoa perfect rage. He now loved Katherine more than before, and turning tothe Duke of Burgundy, {273}the only member of the royal family of Francewho was present, he said; "Fair cousin, we wish you to know that we_will_ have the daughter of your king, or we will drive him and you outof his kingdom." The duke replied angrily, and many high words passedbetween the two men before they separated.
Henry continued his war in France, conquering at every step, until,reduced to dire distress, the royal family were forced to pocket theirpride, and beg to have the marriage treaty renewed. Henry was even askedto name his own terms. He haughtily replied: "That he had been deceivedso often that he would treat with no one but the Princess Katherineherself, who, he was sure, would not try to deceive him." This messagewas carried to the queen, who returned a love-letter written by theprincess, and a request that Henry would come to Troyes for the ceremonyof espousal. He consented with pleasure.
Henry V. had not been modest in his demands, for with the hand ofKatherine he was to receive not only the provinces he had named inthe first instance, but also the regency of the whole of France, thusdisinheriting the older children of the royal family.
[[A.D. 1420.]] On his arrival he was conducted with great ceremony tothe Htel de Ville, where apartments had been provided for him, and thenext day he met Queen Isabeau and his lady-love at the church of NotreDame, where, before the high altar, the articles of peace were read andsigned. Henry's tall, handsome figure was well set off that day by themagnificent suit of burnished armor in which he appeared. In his helmetwas a fox's tail ornamented with precious stones. A flowing plume wouldhave been much prettier, but he liked to dress oddly sometimes, andno doubt thought that a little surprise of this sort would exciteKatherine's interest. {274}After the treaty was signed, King Henryrequested an interview with his lady-love, which was granted, nobodybesides being present excepting one female attendant. Katherine couldspeak little English, and Henry's knowledge of French was slight,which made their love scene, as Shakspeare has represented it, quitelaughable. When he asks her: "Do you like me, Kate?" she replies:"Pardonnez moi, I cannot tell vat is--'_like me?_'" But when he tellsher she is like an angel, her knowledge of English serves her very well,though she modestly refers to her attendant, who speaks worse than shedoes, to have it explained.
Henry makes a long speech, assuring her of his love, and asking for hersin return, and this she understands so well as to say: "Is it possibledat I sould love de enemy of France?"
"No," he replies, "it is not possible you should love the enemy ofFrance, Kate; but in loving me you should love the friend of France; forI love France so well that I will not part with a village of it: I willhave it all mine; and, Kate, when France is mine and I am yours, thenyours is France, and you are mine."
That puts her head all in a whirl, and she says, with a slight frown: "Icannot tell vat is dat." But the lover soon explains all that he wantsher to understand and receives her promise to marry him. Placing asuperb ring of great value upon her finger, Henry kisses his lady-loveand thus ends the ceremony of betrothal.
The following month they were married; but this event did not put an endto the war, for the honeymoon was passed amidst a series of sieges andbloodshed, and there is no account of Katherine's once interceding withher husband for her wretched country. If she had not been selfish in herhappiness she might have spared much misery to others. {275}After thesiege of Melun, Henry had Queen Isabeau proclaimed regent of France, sothat he might visit England to show off his pretty bride and have hercrowned. First they made a triumphal' entry into Paris, where richpresents were offered to the youthful queen, and the rejoicings were ona most magnificent scale. The young couple spent Christmas in thatcity, and went on the 1st of February to Calais, where they embarked forEngland.
[[A.D. 1421.]] Towards the end of the month Katherine was crowned atWestminster Abbey and then conducted to the great hall, where a feastwas served to a large party of noble ladies and gentlemen. But thisfeast had to be prepared without meat of any kind, for it was Lent, andcalled for a great deal of ingenuity on the part of the caterers. Eachcourse was contrived to express some political meaning, the motto ofexplaining it being always attached to the most prominent dish.
The only instance of active benevolence that we hear of Katherine tookplace at this feast, when she asked her husband to give James I. ofScotland, who was a prisoner and sat at the table, his liberty. Henryconsented on condition that the king would go with him to fight inFrance.
Then the young queen went to live at Windsor, where her husband wouldhave joined her, but he was compelled to go back to France to fight.
It was during the siege of Meaux that news was brought him of the birthof a son. "Where was the boy born?" he asked eagerly, and when he wastold "at Windsor," he repeated the following prophetic verse, whichshows not only that he must have been very superstitious, but that hewas a wretched poet:--
               "I, Henry, born at Monmouth,
               Shall small time reign and much get;
               But Henry of Windsor shall long reign and lose all;
               But as God will, so be it."
{276} Henry requested that the child should not be born at Windsor,because he had some mysterious belief that bad luck hung over thatpalace, but Katherine had not chosen to obey him.
The following spring she wrote a loving letter to her lord, declaringthat she longed to see him, and he immediately wrote her to join him inFrance.
She landed at Harfleur with an army of twenty thousand men, who were toassist in fighting against her unhappy country. Her father and motheradvanced with Henry V. to meet her, and the reunion was a source ofgreat joy to them all. No doubt the king wanted to see his little baby,but it had been left in England, and he was never to have that greatpleasure. His health had been failing for a long time, but amidst theexcitement of war he would not allow himself rest until he could nolonger stand. Shortly after his wife's arrival he was carried on alitter to the castle in the wood of Vincennes, where she was stopping,and where he spent his last hours on earth.
[[A.D. 1422.]] When he was dying, he said to the Duke of Bedford:"Comfort my dear wife, the most afflicted creature living."
Katherine was not twenty-one years old when her husband died, and hergrief was most violent, for she loved him devotedly. She made all thefuneral arrangements herself, and they were conducted with great pomp.
The body was laid on a chariot drawn by four black horses. Above it wasa bed on which lay a figure made of leather, and painted to resemble thedead king. On the head of this figure was a crown of gold and preciousstones, and around the body a purple robe lined and trimmed with ermine.In the right hand was a sceptre, in the left a globe of gold with across rising from it. The face was uncovered, and a canopy superblydecorated was held above it. The
{277}
[Illustration: 0281]
{279}King of Scots and a number of princes, lords, and knights followedin deep mourning. Four hundred armed knights rode around the car withtheir lances pointing downward, and these were followed by a company ofmen clothed in white bearing lighted torches. The queen with her retinuecame about a mile behind. When the procession reached London it was metby fifteen bishops, a score of abbots, and a vast crowd of priests andpeople. They proceeded along the streets chaunting hymns for their deadking. After his burial Katherine raised a magnificent tomb to hismemory.
The little prince was just eight months old when his mother returned tohim at Windsor, where she spent the first few weeks of her widowhood.When parliament met, four months later, she removed to London and passedthrough the city on a throne drawn by white horses and surrounded by allthe princes and nobles of England. With her infant on her lap, theyoung mother looked very pretty and interesting, and it is said that thelittle fellow behaved remarkably well. As he grew up he was present eachyear at the opening of parliament, and when he reached the age ofseven the Earl of Warwick was appointed his tutor. He was crowned atWestminster, and afterwards the ceremony was repeated at Paris.
In the meantime his mother had become reconciled to the loss of herhusband, and had married one Owen Tudor, with whom she lived veryprivately. After Henry V. died, the English met with many disastersin France, for there was nobody to lead them as this great warrior haddone. This was a cause of deep sorrow to Katherine, and, with otheranxieties, broke down her health. She died on the 3d of January, 1437,and was buried in "Our Lady's Chapel" at Westminster Abbey.
{280}



CHAPTER XVIII. MARGARET OF ANJOU, QUEEN OF HENRY VI.
(A.D. 1429-1479.)
|Margaret was the last of the Provenal Queens of England, and shefilled a most important position for more than a quarter of a century.Through her mother she was a direct descendant of the great EmperorCharlemagne, and her father, Ren of Anjou, was the son of the King ofSicily and Jerusalem.
[[A.D. 1431.]] When she was about two years old her father fought abattle against Anthony of Vaudemonte, and was taken prisoner. Thisbattle was to decide who was to rule over Lorraine, and as Ren wascaptured he was handed over to the Duke of Burgundy, who locked himup in the top of a high tower at Dijon. While there the royal captiveamused himself with painting on glass; some of the beautiful specimensof his art were preserved, and are still to be seen in the chapel of theCastle of Dijon.
During the imprisonment of her husband, which lasted a long time,Margaret's mother was left with the entire care of their four youngchildren, two boys and two girls, all of whom were remarkably pretty andinteresting. Many months passed, and at last Ren was granted permissionto leave the prison on condition that he would consent to the marriageof his elder daughter, Yolante, then in her ninth year, with Frederic ofVaudemonte, the son of the man by whom he had been made a captive. Shewas to have for her dowry part of the disputed lands
{281}
[Illustration: 0285]
{283}of Lorraine. Besides, Ren had to pledge himself to pay a heavyransom to the Duke of Burgundy, to give his two sons as hostages, andto allow Yolante to go and live with her new mother-in-law. At the sametime, the baby Margaret was promised in marriage to Pierre, Count ofSt. Pol, but in consideration of her youth she was permitted to stay athome. So out of their four children these unhappy parents took back onlyone to Nancy, where they were living.
All Ren's efforts to raise the ransom failed, and there was nothingleft for him to do but to deliver himself up at last and go back toprison. His son John went with him, while Louis, the younger one, wasrestored to his distressed mother.
Two years passed away, and Louis, King of Naples, died. Ren was hisrightful successor, and his faithful wife immediately took steps toclaim the throne for him. She was a woman of superior talent, courage,and energy, and as she lived at the time when the renowned Joan of Arcwas flourishing, it did not appear in any way odd or strange that sheshould fight for her rights. She at once assumed the title of Queen ofthe Two Sicilies, and went to live in the Castle of Tarascon, on thebanks of the river Rhone.
Her two children became such pets among the Provenals, who loved theircaptive prince, that they were almost worshipped. Every time they wentout the people would follow them in crowds, sing and strew flowers intheir path, and present them with offerings of wreaths. At nightthey would light bonfires in front of the castle, because there was asuperstition among them that it was the way to keep off pestilence. Oncewhen a band of people, calling themselves witches and fairies, came withthe crowd to see the pretty children, they were all burned alive, theignorant of those times believing that pestilence was brought by themagic of such creatures. Notwith{284}standing this precaution a plaguereally did break out, and the queen was obliged to hurry away with herlittle ones. They embarked at Marseilles and went to Naples, where therewas an ancient palace belonging to the family of Anjou.
The queen then had her husband proclaimed King of the Two Sicilies. Atthis ceremony she was seated with her children in the chair of state,which was covered with velvet embroidered with gold, and borne throughthe streets of Naples. She never ceased working until she obtainedher husband's freedom, and witnessed his grand entry into Naples on astately white charger, followed by a Provenal army.
[[A.D. 1435.]] In the treaty for his liberation the following veryremarkable article, proposed by the Duke of Burgundy, appears:--"Andto cement the peace between the two powers, Margaret of Anjou, seconddaughter of King Ren, shall espouse the young King of England."Margaret was then only six years of age. Her parents removed to amagnificent palace, where she and her brother Louis pursued theirstudies together for several years. Then Louis died and Margaretexperienced in this loss her first real sorrow.
King Ren's territories fell into the hands of the English, and he wasreduced to such poverty that he retired with his family to Lorraine,where he spent his time writing verses and composing music that wasthe delight of all Europe. It was he who invented the opera ballet,and while thus pleasantly engaged he bore his trials with perfectindifference.
In the meantime, Margaret's engagement with St. Pol was broken off onaccount of the prospect of an alliance with the King of England. She hadbecome a beautiful girl, and had created quite a sensation at the courtof her {285}aunt, the Queen of France, by her wit and accomplishments.When Henry VI. heard of her charms he sent a gentleman to find outif they had not been exaggerated, and at the same time to bring him acorrect portrait of the Lady Margaret. The messenger returned with aneloquent description of her, partly because it was really deserved, andpartly because he, as well as many persons of both the English and theFrench nations, hoped that this alliance would bring about a lastingpeace between their countries. Henry was then in his four-and-twentiethyear, good-looking, with a cultivated, refined mind, and excellentmorals.
[[A.D. 1444.]] In 1444, commissioners met to arrange a treaty of peace,which was to be strengthened by the marriage of Henry and Margaret. WhenKing Ren's consent was asked he gave it on condition that the dominionsof Anjou and Maine were returned to him. This was granted by Henry andhis council, and neither money nor lands were required for a dowrywith the bride, her beauty and talents being considered sufficient "tooutweigh all the riches in the world."
There was some opposition made to this marriage by the Duke ofGloucester and his party, who did not want peace with France, nor adaughter of the house of Anjou on their throne; but it was all arrangedin spite of them, and the Duke of Suffolk sailed from England with asplendid train of nobility to conduct Margaret to her future home.
The marriage ceremony was performed at Nancy in presence of the bride'sparents, the royal family of France, and a large number of nobles andladies. King Henry was not present, but Suffolk stood in his place, andmarried the Lady Margaret in the name of the Sovereign of England.
King Ren gave a grand tournament in honor of the {286}marriage, and allthe princely knights and gallant warriors wore garlands of daisies outof compliment to the bride, who had chosen this flower for her emblem.The festivities lasted eight days, and were attended by most of thenobles of France, England, and Burgundy. Margaret's sister, Yolante, wasmarried at the same time, and this is how it was managed: she had beenengaged to Frederic of Vaudemonte for more than nine years, but asher father had been forced to agree to this engagement when he was aprisoner he never intended to fulfil it. But the lover was not to be putoff any longer, so he made a plan with some of his daring young friendsto carry off his lady-love while the tournament was going on. King Renwas very angry at first, but soon forgave the young couple, and thefestivities continued with fresh spirit.
At the end of the week Margaret took a mournful farewell of her weepingfamily and friends, by whom she was deeply loved. Her uncle, CharlesVII. of France, went part of the way with her. At parting, he pressedher in his arms tenderly, and said, with his eyes full of tears: "I seemto have done nothing for you, my dear niece, in placing you on one ofthe greatest thrones in Europe, for it is scarcely worthy of possessingyou." The young queen was sobbing so that she could not reply, and theyparted never to meet again. Her father went with her still further, andwhen they embraced in farewell they could not speak, but turned awayfrom each other with hearts too full to permit of their uttering asingle word.
The wars with France that had lasted so long had made Henry so poorthat he was obliged to call a meeting of parliament, when his bridewas coming, to get money to defray the expenses of his wedding andMargaret's coronation, and for the same purpose he pawned some of thecrown jewels.
The young queen had been so ill on the voyage that she {287}had to becarried from the boat to the shore. A terrible storm was raging whenshe landed, but in spite of the thunder and lightning, people flocked incrowds to look at her. It was many days before she could proceed on herjourney, because her illness proved to be something that looked verylike small-pox. However, it could not have been a very severe case,because her beauty was not impaired in the least.
[[A.D. 1445.]] She was able to join her husband at last, and theirnuptials were solemnized at Tichfield Abbey, in April, 1445. The bridalring contained a ruby of great value, and had been a present to the kingfrom his uncle, Cardinal Beaufort.
Poor Margaret's wardrobe was so scanty that Henry was obliged to buyher some clothing before she could appear in public. This to a girlof fifteen, who probably expected a fine trousseau when she marriedat least, must have been distressing. Although the English weredissatisfied because their new queen brought no dower, and because ofher relation to the royal family of France, her beauty won its wayto their hearts, and secured for her a hearty welcome where ever sheappeared. All the knights and nobles wore her emblem flower, the daisy,in their caps, when they came in a body to receive her in state. Thismust have been a very flattering compliment, and the king carried itstill further by having "Marguerites" engraved on his silver. Grandpreparations had been made in London for the young queen's reception;there were triumphal arches across the principal streets bearing mottoesand beautiful designs in flowers, besides banners and evergreens. Atevery corner there were pictures or dressed-up figures having somepolitical meaning, or offering some mark of welcome and loyalty to thenew sovereign.
A large procession of men on horseback conducted her {288}into thecity.' These consisted of, first, the Duke of Gloucester with fivehundred attendants, all wearing his badge and livery; then the mayor,aldermen, and sheriffs in blue gowns with embroidered sleeves and redhoods. Next came the queen's carriage, surrounded by her suite, and along train of followers brought up the rear.
The coronation took place at Westminster two days later with greatsplendor, though the king's treasury was almost empty. No doubt all thisdisplay was very gratifying to King Ren's faithful steward, squire,and minstrels, who came to England to witness the reception of theirprincess, then went back home to tell all about it.
A few weeks after the coronation an embassy arrived with congratulationsto Henry VI. from the King of France, and Ren, Margaret's father.Henry received them seated in a large chair of state covered with bluetapestry. His long robe of scarlet velvet with gold embroidery swept thefloor. When the ambassadors made their speech, wishing him the blessingsof peace and prosperity, he raised his hat and said, several times: "St.John, thanks; great thanks to St. John!" They then inquired after thehealth of the young queen, and expressed a hope that the peace thenexisting between France and England would last forever. Henry replied:"That he desired the continuance of peace beyond anything on earth;" towhich all who were present answered, "Amen!"
For the first two years after Margaret's marriage, Cardinal Beaufort washer chief adviser, and she became so fond of him that she would oftenmake visits at his house in Waltham Forest, where there was a roommagnificently fitted up for her special use with hangings of spun goldfrom Damascus. Henry was attached to the good cardinal also, andwas always glad to be guided by his advice. He was of the greatestassistance to the young couple on several {289}occasions, for hisimmense wealth enabled him to help them out of many a debt that theycould not otherwise have paid.
At this time Margaret was a woman of unusual intellect and grace ofmanners. One of the chroniclers of her reign says of her: "England hadnever seen a queen more worthy of a throne than Margaret of Anjou. Nowoman surpassed her in beauty, and few men equalled her in courage.It seemed as if she had been formed by Heaven to supply to her royalhusband the qualities which he required in order to become a greatking."
It was a pity that she was called to share the throne of England whenshe was so young, for her judgment was not formed, and she had a naturethat was more likely to create enemies than friends. She was veryfoolish in her treatment of the Duke of Gloucester, Henry's uncle, who,she knew, had been one of those most strongly opposed to her marriage.For this she could not forgive him, and, like a spoiled child, tookevery opportunity of showing him what influence she had over the king,and how much she loved Cardinal Beaufort and the Duke of Suffolk, bothof whom were his sworn enemies. But there was a great change in her lifeby the time she had been two years on the throne, for Henry's ministersmet in parliament, and decided on the destruction of the Duke ofGloucester. He had shown a disposition to join the Duke of York for thepurpose of opposing the queen and her influence in every possible way.Although the king had no particular evidence to offer against his uncle,he was convinced that he was his enemy, and had him arrested for hightreason. The whole country was astonished at this charge, but theastonishment was changed to horror, when, seventeen days later, the Dukeof Gloucester was found dead in his bed. Murder was suspected, but therewas no proof of it. Some people even {290}accused the queen of havinghad a hand in it, but it is not at all probable that so young a girl,and one of Margaret's open, candid nature, could have been guilty of sofoul a deed.
Eight weeks later the venerable Cardinal Beaufort died, and the youngqueen was thus deprived of a friend and adviser, whose large experienceand profound wisdom had made his counsel so valuable to her. This was,indeed, a most serious loss, for Henry had not the qualities requisitefor the government of a kingdom, and this duty, therefore, fell upon theshoulders of Margaret, who was so young that she had scarcely learnedto govern herself. The king was absorbed in his studies and in theregulation of the college at Eton, that he had just founded. Affairs ofstate interested him but little, so his wife naturally turned for adviceto the nearest friend of the departed cardinal. This was the Duke ofSuffolk, a gray-haired statesman and soldier, who had served in theEnglish army for thirty-four years. He was also a member of the king'scabinet, and his wife was Margaret's favorite maid of honor.
During the interval of peace that the English nation enjoyed before theywere again forced into war, Margaret laid the foundation for Queen'sCollege. She also tried to get the people interested in the manufactureof woollen and silk goods that had been commenced there many yearsbefore, but the desire for fighting had grown so that it was impossibleto make those men or their sons who had fought in France, till the soilor weave cloth. The silk manufacture was chiefly carried on by women,while the men thirsted for the excitement of war in spite of itsmiseries.
[[A.D. 1449.]] In 1449 Charles VII. renewed hostilities, and in thecourse of two years had got back most of the towns in Normandy. The Dukeof York and his party blamed "that French woman," as they contemptuously{291}called Margaret, for all their losses, and declared that the kingwas fit for a cloister rather than a throne, since he left all theaffairs of his kingdom in the hands of a woman.
The Duke of York made himself so offensive to Margaret that she resolvedto get rid of him at any cost; she therefore appointed him governor ofIreland. This was a serious mistake, for it only increased his power. Heleft a strong party in England who were opposed to the queen, thoughnot openly, and did everything to make her and her favorite ministerunpopular. They never ceased their efforts until they saw the Duke ofSuffolk first imprisoned, then banished, and finally put to death by hisenemies in defiance of the crown.
This tragedy was the first of many scenes of blood and horror that werein store for England. The misery of the lower classes caused by famineand disease was so great that they rose in rebellion, headed by JackCade, who gathered his rough motley forces about him at Blackheath.They numbered fifteen thousand, but when they heard that King Henry wascoming in person to fight them, they got frightened, and fled to a placecalled Seven Oaks.
It was a pity that Queen Margaret went with her husband, for althoughshe became warlike later in life, she was so little disposed to fight atthat time that no sooner had Henry gained a victory than she persuadedhim to go back with her to London. She could scarcely have committeda greater error, for the rebels mistook the king's departure forcowardice, and marched straight to the metropolis, where there is notelling what they would have done had not the churchmen interferedand calmed the storm. At their approach the king and queen fled toKenilworth Castle, and the archbishop took it upon himself to pardon therebels if they would return in peace to their homes.
[[A.D. 1450.]] {292}Cade was not pardoned, but when he found himselfdeserted by his followers he made his escape. A thousand pounds wereoffered for his head, and the sheriff of Kent, who caught him, obtainedthe reward. It was afterwards proved that the Duke of York was at thebottom of this revolt.
The royal couple had now taken the Duke of Somerset into their favor,and though he was exceedingly unpopular in England he succeeded toSuffolk's high office. He belonged to the house of Lancaster, and itis said that his violent temper caused the beginning of those dreadful"wars of the roses" that lasted for twenty years. He had a dispute withWarwick in the Temple Gardens, and plucked a red rose, calling on allthe bystanders who sided with him to do likewise. Warwick chose a whiterose, and did the same, and forever after the two parties of York andLancaster were distinguished by this sign. Instead of endeavoringto settle the dispute, Queen Margaret wore the red rose, and veryimprudently declared herself an opponent of the other party.
In time the Duke of York became so powerful that the queen advised herhusband to make an attack on him. He consented, and marched toward theWelsh border, but he was too weak to take a firm stand as he ought tohave done to crush his enemy, and consented to an interview with York,who demanded that Somerset should first be put under arrest. Henryconsented. York then disbanded his army and entered the king's tentquite alone. In the meantime the queen had contrived to get Somerset outof the Tower without Henry's knowledge. She then concealed him behind acurtain of the royal tent, so that he might be present at the interview.When York assured the king that he had taken up arms for the solepurpose of bringing Somerset to punishment, the concealed duke rushedfrom
{293}
[Illustration: 0297]
{295}his hiding-place and accused his enemy of treason. A fierce quarrelensued, during which the king stood speechless with astonishment. AsYork left the tent he was put under arrest, probably by the queen'sorder; but later, when he swore fealty to the king at St. Paul'sCathedral, he was released.
[[A.D. 1452.]] About this time Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury, one ofMargaret's most devoted friends, was killed in battle. A magnificentvolume of sketches that he presented to her shows that he must have hadgreat taste for the fine arts. The colored title-page represents theking and queen seated side by side on a low divan. Margaret wears aroyal crown; her hair is of a pale golden color, and falls gracefullyover her shoulders. Her mantle is of royal purple, fastened with gemsand bands of gold. She is beautiful and majestic in this picture, anddoes not appear more than twenty years old. Talbot kneels before herpresenting the volume, with his dog by his side. Daisies are painted inclusters on the title-page, and the queen's initial (M) is surrounded bythe garter and its motto. The ladies in attendance who stand behind thedivan wear heart-shaped caps, formed of a stuffed roll ornamented withgold and jewels, and fastened in a fanciful turban shape over a closecap of gold cloth or net-work brought to a point in front and rising atthe back of the head. At the end of the volume is an allegorical picturerepresenting Margaret and the ladies of her court as the Virtues.Margaret is Faith and King Henry appears as Honor. The old earl wasmourned by all classes of people, for he was the greatest captain of theage.
[[A.D. 1453.]] It was in this year that the queen's dearly loved motherdied, and a still heavier calamity fell upon the royal household in thefearful malady that began to show itself in the king. He had inheritedthe brain disease {296}of his grandfather, Charles VI. of France, andthe trouble in his court had so affected him that his reason gave wayunder it. Margaret was therefore compelled to govern alone, whether shedesired it or no, and, like a good wife, she made every effort to keepher poor ailing husband in ignorance of all political disturbance. Shehad him removed to his palace at Westminster, where he could be quietand kept free from all excitement, and it was there that his only child,the unfortunate Edward of Lancaster, called "The child of sorrow,"was born. This boy was named Edward, and was York's only rival to thethrone. He was therefore not welcome to the nation, who felt that hisexistence would be the cause of much bloodshed between the two partiesof York and Lancaster.
At this period Queen Margaret was ruling, with the assistance ofCardinal Kemp, Archbishop of Canterbury, but he died a few months afterthe prince was born, and the House of Lords sent a committee to theking to request him to name a successor. But poor Henry stared at themwithout understanding a word they said, and of course could make noreply. The Duke of York was then appointed defender and protector of theking as long as his illness lasted, or until Prince Edward should be oldenough to ascend the throne. Five physicians and surgeons were appointedto attend the royal sufferer and watch over his health.
Margaret was so wrapped up in her baby, and so worried on account of herhusband's condition, that she took no part in these political changes,but her party insisted on her having absolute power as queen regent.York objected, and had the Duke of Somerset put under arrest.
A few months later the king's consciousness suddenly returned, and heseemed as though awakening from a deep sleep. His child was then shownto him, and he noticed {297}
[Illustration: 0301] {299}the boy for the first time, although he wasmore than a year old. The news of the cardinal's death brought tearsto his eyes, and he said "that he never knew of it till this time," and"that one of the wisest lords in the land was dead."
There was great rejoicing over the king's recovery, and Margaretimmediately took measures to have him restored to power. Though stillweak, he attended parliament and replaced Somerset in office. But thistriumph of the queen's party did not last long, for the Duke of Yorkraised an army and marched towards London, intending to take the king bysurprise.
Henry had courage, but he could not bear to shed the blood of hissubjects; however, there was no help for it now, so he made hisheadquarters at St. Albans, with not more than two thousand men. TheEarl of Warwick commenced the attack, and the battle, which lasted onlyone hour, was a desperate one, large numbers being slain on both sides.The king was wounded in the neck, but continued to fight until leftalone under the royal banner. He then walked coolly to a baker's shopclose by to have the wound attended to. The Duke of York followed him,and falling on his knees before the sovereign, said: "Rejoice! for thetraitor, Somerset, is slain." Henry replied: "For God's sake stop theslaughter of my subjects." York then took the wounded king by thehand and led him to his apartments in the abbey of St. Albans. On thefollowing day they went together to London.
At the approach of the Duke of York's army Margaret had retired toGreenwich with her ladies and the little prince, where she awaited theresult of the battle of St. Albans with great anxiety; and when the newscame of the defeat of her party, and the death of so many of her bravefriends, she fainted and remained in a stupor for several hours. Theking's wound was so serious that, added to {300}the excitement of thebattle, it brought a return of his disease. He was not in a condition toattend the next parliament, so the Duke of York appeared in his name.
This was a parliament made up of the queen's enemies, who naturallyfound great fault with her management of public affairs. They petitionedthe king to appoint the Duke of York protector of the realm, and urgedhim so often and strongly to this step that at last he consented. Nosooner was this done than the queen was advised to withdraw to somequiet spot with her husband and child. She was glad to comply, for hermind was so filled with these objects of her care that she did not feelcapable of any other duties. She removed to Greenwich Palace, where shedevoted herself to the nursing of the king and the education of her boy.But while there she received frequent visits from the princes of theLancaster family and the young Tudors, Henry's half brothers. Besidesthese, a band of brave young nobles and gentlemen gathered around her,panting to avenge the blood of their fathers who had fallen at St.Albans. These so strengthened the Red Rose party that as soon as theking's health improved Margaret felt it her duty to present him again atparliament. She therefore held a meeting of her friends and made all thearrangements for this step.
[[A.D. 1456.]] When King Henry entered the House of Lords, and addressedthem in a calm, dignified speech, telling them that since by theblessing of God his health was so far restored that the kingdom nolonger needed a protector, they were so taken by surprise that theyimmediately consented to his resuming the reins of government. The Dukeof York had not heard of this new move of Queen Margaret's, and happenedto be absent. When an order reached him next day, signed by the king,requesting him to resign his office, he was so chagrined that he retiredto {301}the country. Henry Beaufort, heir to the late Duke of Somerset,was then appointed prime minister.
The poor queen had her hands full, for not only was she obliged to keepconstantly prompting her husband how to act, but she took great painsto amuse him and to preserve in him a calm, peaceful state of mind.Minstrels were gathered from all parts of the country, and well paidfor reciting and playing to him, and daily requests came from nobles andother subjects for leave to go on pilgrimages to the different shrinesto pray for his health. This had a very soothing influence and filledKing Henry's mind with hope.
Margaret showed a great deal of wisdom and prudence in the way sheexercised her power at this time, and feeling a desire to know whethershe was popular with her subjects, she resolved to travel with the kingand the little prince through some of the midland counties and spend ashort time at Coventry. Everywhere the royal party were received withgreat enthusiasm, and processions were got up in their honor. Margaretwon her way to all hearts that were not prejudiced against her, andduring her stay at Coventry the citizens became so devoted to her thatthe name of their town was changed to "Margaret's Safe Harbor."
Now the French and Scotch thought that as there were two partiesin England it was a good time to attack them, but they made a greatmistake, for although the nation were divided among themselves, theybecame one as soon as a foreign power dared to attack them. A generalcongress of the two parties was called, and presided over by thelord-mayor, who was appointed guardian of the public peace. A treaty wasformed after two months of debate and quarrel, when the king and queenmade a public entry into London. The feast of the Annunciation was keptas a day of public thanksgiving for the peace that reigned between thehouses of York and Lancaster, and when the {302}procession was formed tomarch to St. Paul's Cathedral, the earls who had been the deadliest foesheaded it, walking arm in arm. The king followed alone, and just behindhim came the Duke of York, leading Margaret by the hand. All appeared tobe on the most loving terms, and the happiness of the citizens ofLondon manifested itself in their cheering, bonfires and other signs ofrejoicing. This patched-up, make-believe peace lasted only a short time,for the Duke of York was at that time lord admiral of the whole Englishnavy, and with so much power he was not likely to remain long inactive.
[[A.D. 1459.]] The following year the queen made a tour through some ofthe counties of England with her husband, for the benefit of his health,as she said, though her real object was to gain favor for her son, thena most engaging child of six years. So well did she succeed that at thebattle of Bloreheath, which was fought shortly after, ten thousand menwore the Prince of Wales' livery. King Henry was dangerously ill whenthis battle was fought. The Yorkists were victorious, and their leaderboldly asserted his right to the crown.
But Margaret was not crushed by defeat; on the contrary, her energieswere aroused, and she determined to take up arms herself to fight thecause of her husband and son. The warlike blood of Charlemagne wasthrilling in her veins, and she was the countrywoman of Joan of Arc,who had proved herself such a successful warrior. She went to Coventry,where she succeeded in getting together another army. By this time theking's health had so far improved that she persuaded him to march toLudlow and meet the Duke of York on the battle-field.
In the meantime Margaret had so increased her popularity that many ofthe Yorkist soldiers refused to fight against her husband. The duke wastaken aback at this, and circulated {303}a report of the king's death,and caused a mass to be sung in camp for the repose of his soul. Hearingof this, the queen caused a pardon to be proclaimed in the king's namefor all who would return to their allegiance. The Yorkist leadersdid not believe in this offer of pardon until Henry, urged on byhis courageous wife, advanced to the very gates of Ludlow Castle andproclaimed it again. Then so many soldiers of the other side desertedthat the duke made his escape and went to Calais, leaving his wife andher two younger sons to defend the castle. They were taken prisoners,and the whole town was destroyed.
Margaret was delighted with the success of her first campaign, but shedid not enjoy her triumph very long, for the Earl of Warwick, who was amore determined enemy than York, brought a band of experienced soldiersfrom Calais, and gathering all his forces, made a tremendous charge onthe Lancaster troops, killing ten thousand of them in two short hours,and capturing King Henry. The queen was stationed near enough to receivethe dreadful news within an hour, and made her escape with her son toa fortress in the north of Wales, where she was honorably received andprotected by a courageous chieftain of that country. Nobody knew whereshe was hidden, not even the king, who was taken to London and carefullyguarded.
As soon as York heard of the victory of his party he entered the city ofLondon at the head of five hundred horsemen, with a sword of state bornebefore him. He rode straight to Westminster, and, entering the House ofLords, walked to the throne, and laid his right hand on it with a lookaround among the peers that implied he awaited an invitation to takehis seat there. Not a word was spoken. At length the Archbishop ofCanterbury broke the dead silence, and asked him, "if he would bepleased to visit the king."
"I know of no one in the realm who {304}ought not rather to visit me,"he replied, haughtily, and left the house.
The peers then referred it to Henry to decide whether he or the Duke ofYork had the legal claim to the throne. He replied: "My father was king;his father was also king; I have worn the crown forty years from mycradle; you have all sworn fealty to me as your sovereign, and yourfathers have done the like to my father and grandfather. How, then, canmy right be disputed?" Nevertheless, the king agreed that if he werepermitted to wear the crown during his life, he would resign it, at hisdeath, to the Duke of York or his heirs. He was next compelled to orderthe return of his wife and son.
All the fire in Margaret's nature was aroused at hearing how the rightsof her boy had been surrendered, but she was without an army, and whatcould she do? Suddenly it occurred to her to seek assistance from theKing of Scotland. He was the son of a Lancaster princess, and hiswife was a friend and relation of Margaret. She caused a report to becirculated that she was raising an army in France, then went secretly toScotland, and within eight days after her husband's order for return hadbeen received she crossed the Scottish border at the head of the forcesshe had gathered there, and unfurled the banner of the Red Rose. Hernumbers were increased by knights from all the northern counties ofEngland, and before the leaders of the White Rose party were aware ofher being in the country at all, she presented herself at the gates ofYork.
The duke was so taken by surprise at this bold movement on the partof the queen that he shut himself up in his strong Castle of Sandal toawait the arrival of his son. But Margaret followed him up, and defiedhim day after day to meet her in the field, calling him a coward forbeing afraid of a woman, until he arranged his forces for battle, hopingto
{305}
[Illustration: 0309]
{307}frighten her away. He soon saw his mistake though, for Margaret wasnot in the least daunted at the sight of his warriors. She did not playthe Amazon herself by fighting, but she directed her own forces, underthe command of Somerset, in such a way as to enclose the Yorkistsfrom all sides in a net, as it were, and in less than half an hourtwo thousand of them lay dead on the field, the duke himself among thenumber. Lord Clifford cut off the dead leader's head, crowned it withpaper, and presented it on the point of his lance to Queen Margaret,saying: "Madam, your war is done; here is your king's ransom."
She shuddered at first and turned away, then suddenly remembering allthe trouble this man had given her, she looked again and smiled insatisfaction. She then ordered the head to be placed over the gates ofYork, and that of the Earl of Salisbury, who was her prisoner, to beplaced beside it, adding, that room must be left for those of the Earlsof March, York's son, and Warwick, which she intended should keep themcompany. This was a grave mistake, and added much to the fury of herenemies, who stopped at no deed of cruelty and horror after that.
Her next step was to try to rescue her husband, for which purpose shehurried on to London. But she was met at St. Alban's by Warwick's forcesleading the king in their train. A furious battle ensued, but Margaret'sstout northern soldiers were too much for the Londoners, and whennight came all the Yorkists fled, leaving the king behind. One of hisattendants hastened to the queen's quarters to inform her that her lordwas near, whereupon she flew to embrace him. Accompanied by the Princeof Wales and some of the northern lords, they went to the Abbey churchof St. Albans to return thanks to God for the king's deliverance. Theywere received by the abbot and monks, who prepared apartments for themin the abbey, where they remained for a while. {308}But Margaret'sbetter feelings were all changed by the hard experience she had had, andin her desire for further vengeance she made so many mistakes that sheturned the good-will of the Londoners towards her into hatred, andthey refused to let her enter the city. So she removed with her troopstowards the northern counties, her husband and son accompanying her.Then Edward of York entered London in triumph. He was received by thecitizens as their deliverer, and proclaimed king by the voice of thepeople under the title of Edward IV.
This was considered the death-blow to the house of Lancaster, but not bythe persistent Margaret, who in the course of a few days rallied an armyof sixty thousand men. Her generals, Somerset and Clifford, persuadedher to stay with her husband and son, while they engaged Edward andthe Earl of Warwick, first at Ferrybridge and then at Towton. A heavysnow-storm that fell in the faces of the Lancastrians so blinded themthat their arrows did not take effect, while those of their enemycovered the field with forty thousand of their dead.
Margaret fled to Scotland, and Edward IV. forbade all his subjects underpain of death to hold any sort of communication with her or her husband;yet there were many faithful hearts ready to sacrifice life and fortuneto the heroine of the Red Rose. She and Louis XI., then on the throne ofFrance, were first cousins, and had been brought up together. To him shenow turned for aid, but he received her coldly when she threw herselfat his feet, merely offering her a sum of money providing she wouldgive him Calais if she could not return it within a year. The peopleof England objected to this, and thought that as Calais was not hers togive she had committed treason in making the promise.
After five months' absence she returned to England with {309}twothousand volunteers, obtained more assistance from the Scotch, and gotpossession of several important fortresses.
In the spring the battle of Hexham was fought, the Yorkists beingvictorious. Margaret fled with her son to the nearest forest, where,after wandering about for awhile, she fell in with a gang of robbers,who stole everything of value that she had about her. While they werequarrelling over the division of the spoils, she snatched up her boy andran away to the nearest thicket. When evening came on she crept out ofher hiding-place, dreading above all things lest she might fall in witha band of Edward's troops, when by the light of the moon she beheld arobber of gigantic size advancing towards her with a drawn sword. Takingher son by the hand she bravely advanced towards the man with all hernatural dignity of bearing and said: "Here, my friend, save the son ofyour king." The robber was struck with astonishment, and dropping hissword, offered to conduct them to a place of safety, telling the queenthat he was a Lancastrian gentleman who had been ruined in King Henry'sservice. Taking the prince in his arms he led Queen Margaret to a cavein the forest, where his wife received them and provided refreshments.There the fugitives remained for two days. On the third theirhiding-place was discovered by the devoted followers who were determinedto stand by Margaret to the very end. These were Pierre de Brez, one ofher own countrymen, his squire, Barville, and an English gentleman.
[[A.D. 1463.]] From them Margaret heard of the escape of her husband andof the dreadful fate of her faithful friends, Somerset, Hungerford, andRoos, who had been captured and beheaded in the public market-place ofHexham without trial.
On leaving the hut of the generous outlaw, the queen {310}thanked himand his wife with tears in her eyes. Her friends had offered them money,which they had refused, and Margaret had nothing left to give them. "Ofall I have lost," she said, "I regret nothing so much as the power torecompense such virtue." She then proceeded to Scotland, reachingthere only after a great deal of hardship and danger, to find that herpresence caused great uneasiness to the king, who feared that it mightbe the means of bringing him into trouble with England.
She embarked for Flanders, where some of the ladies of the court hadtaken refuge, accompanied by the prince, the faithful de Brez, andabout two hundred of those ruined Lancastrians who still had faith inher.
When she arrived at St. Pol, the Duke of Burgundy not only received herwith honors and gave a festival to welcome her, but he also assisted herwith money. To each of her ladies he presented a hundred crowns, to deBrez, who had spent the whole of his fortune in Margaret's service, athousand, and to the queen herself an order for twelve thousand crowns.This princely behavior on the part of the duke was like heaping coals offire on Margaret's head, for she had always despised him, and had beenheard to say more than once, "that if by any chance he were to fallinto her hands she would make the axe pass between his head and hisshoulders." He sympathized with her misfortunes, and entertained her ina way becoming her station, but he would give her no political aid norallow any of his subjects to take part in her quarrel. As his guest shewas welcome so long as she chose to stay, and when she left he providedher with an escort.
Margaret next visited her sister Yolante, Countess of Vaudemonte, andthen her father offered one of his ancient castles in Verdun for herresidence, where, with a few of her ruined friends, she devoted herselfto the education of the last tender bud of the Red Rose of Lancaster.
{311}
[Illustration: 0315]
{313}After King Henry's escape at the battle of Hexham, he wanderedabout, hiding himself in the house of one friend or another, but most ofthe time in a cave, until he was betrayed by a monk, and taken to Londonunder arrest. There he was treated most brutally by a mob, and afterbeing led through the streets by the Earl of Warwick, who kept shouting"Treason, treason, and behold the traitor!" he was locked up in theTower.
It seems that Edward IV. still feared Margaret's power in England, forhe had the coasts guarded to prevent her return, and put to the tortureseveral persons who were only suspected of having assisted her withmoney.
Two years later there was a great change in the politics of England, andthe Earl of Warwick took up arms to drive the king from his throne. Buthe failed and was obliged to fly to France, where Louis received him.Now Margaret's relations saw a chance for regaining for her the throneshe had lost, so they all united in trying to bring about an interviewbetween her and her bitter enemy. At first she shuddered at the thoughtof ever seeing him, but when he became very humble, offered the mostplausible excuses for his conduct, and swore to defend her and her sonwith all the power he had once used in opposing them, she consented topardon him and influenced her son to do the same. The Earl of Oxfordalso obtained her pardon.
Prince Edward was then eighteen years of age, and had fallen in lovewith Anne, the Earl of Warwick's second daughter. Margaret did allshe could to oppose this match, but she was at last won over, and themarriage was solemnized the following August, 1470.
In the meantime Warwick had raised an army to take to England, whitherhe went as soon as the wedding ceremonies were over. His wife, QueenMargaret, Prince Edward and his bride then went to Paris by invitationfrom
Louis XI. The streets of the city were magnificently decorated and hungwith rich tapestry, and all the officers turned out in grand processionto conduct the royal party to the palace of St. Paul, that had beenfitted up for their reception. It was there that news came of thelanding of the Earl of Warwick in England, and of his success inliberating King Henry and placing him on the throne once more.
[[A.D. 1471.]] Then Margaret with all her party resolved to return. InFebruary the preparations were completed, and the fleet set sail fromHarfleur. But wind and weather were against them, and after three timesbeing driven back to the coast of Normandy, with great damage to theships, they resolved to wait.
When at last they were able to sail again, they were sixteen days andnights making a voyage that usually took twelve hours. After landing,they repaired to an abbey, where they were celebrating Easter when thedreadful news came of the death of Warwick and the recapture of KingHenry.
For the first time in her life the poor queen was completely crushed,and wished she might die rather than live for the misery that was yetin store for her. Some of the Lancastrian nobles sought her out, andexpressed their intention of continuing the fight against Edward IV.,and at last so aroused her from the despondent state into which she hadfallen that she consented to aid them. Placing herself at the head ofan army that they had raised, she marched thirty-seven miles in one day,and met her enemy within a mile of Tewksbury.
When all arrangements were made for the battle, Margaret rode about thefield from rank to rank, encouraging the soldiers with promises of largerewards if they won the victory. It proved a sorry day for the Lancastercause, {315}and when Queen Margaret saw her troops wofully defeated shefell down in a swoon. She was carried from the battlefield to a smallconvent near by, where her daughter-in-law and some of her ladiesawaited her. She was thus spared witnessing the fall of her son, whowas killed near the close of the battle; but when the dreadful truthwas brought to her, she cursed King Edward and all his posterity in heragony of grief.
When this was repeated to the king, he thought of putting her to death,but with a refinement of cruelty that was even worse, he forced her andthe unfortunate Princess of Wales to take part in his triumphal entry toLondon. Margaret was then shut up in the dismal prison where her husbandhad been for five years, but she beheld him never again, for he wasmurdered the very night of her arrival in the gloomy fortress of theTower.
King Ren sacrificed his inheritance of Provence to Louis XI. for theliberation of his daughter Margaret. Then an agreement having been madebetween the Kings of France and England for her ransom, in August, 1475,she landed in France, with three ladies and seven gentlemen sent by herfather to escort her. Thirty years before she had left the shores ofher native land a monarch's bride in all the pride and flush of youthfulbeauty; she returned a broken-hearted, childless widow, for whoseafflictions it was treason to shed a tear.
               "Ambition, pride, the rival names
                   Of York and Lancaster,
               With all their long-contested claims,
               What were they then to her?"
[[A.D. 1479.]] She died in the fifty-first year of her age, and wasburied in the Cathedral of Angers, in the same tomb with her royalparents. {316}



CHAPTER XIX. ELIZABETH WOODVILLE, QUEEN OF EDWARD IV.
(A.D. 1431-1492.)
|When Elizabeth Woodville was maid of honor to Queen Margaret of Anjoushe little supposed that she would ever ascend the throne of England,yet that was her destiny not many years later.
But, first, she became the wife of John Grey, son and heir of thewealthy Lord Ferrers, who owned the domain of Bradgate, where shelived until her husband's death. John Grey was a brave, handsome manof twenty-five when he married Elizabeth, and occupied the importantposition of leader of Queen Margaret's cavalry. He was killed at thesecond battle of St. Albans, leaving his young wife with two littlechildren, named Thomas and Richard, both under four years of age. Bythe cruel fortunes of war these little ones were deprived of theirinheritance of Bradgate, and so, with their mother, went to live at theCastle of Grafton, which belonged to the Duchess of Bedford, Elizabeth'smother.
One day when Edward IV. was hunting in the forest of Whittlebury, theyoung widow waylaid him, and throwing herself at his feet, pleadedearnestly for the restoration of Bradgate to her fatherless boys, whostood by her side. Struck by her beauty and downcast looks, the kinglistened attentively to her request, and not only granted it, but fellin love with her on the spot. This interview took place beneath theshade of a wide-spreading tree that is known to this day as the Queen'sOak.
{317}
[Illustration: 0321]
[[A.D. 1464.]] {319}Elizabeth met her royal lover many times afterthat in the same place, and when the Duchess of Bedford, who was amost ambitious and manoeuvring mother, found out how matters stood, shearranged for a private marriage, which took place May 1, 1464, in thetown of Grafton.
The king's mother became very angry when she heard of this unequalmatch, for she was queen at that period, and could not bear to resignher place to the daughter of a man who began his career as a poorsquire. However, it was too late to lament, and in the autumn the bridewas led by the young Duke of Clarence to the abbey-church of Reading,where the king took her by the hand, and presented her to the councilof peers assembled there as his lawfully wedded wife. Elizabeth appearedthat day in a dress of rich blue and gold brocade with a long, fulltrain bordered with ermine. The sleeves and body were tight, and a bandof ermine around the neck, and, passing down either side of the openskirt in front, displayed a rich satin petticoat. Over her yellow hair,which fell loosely down her back, she wore a lofty crown. A costly pearlnecklace encircled her throat.
Queen Elizabeth soon gained unbounded influence over the mind of herhusband, which she too frequently exerted for the advancement of her ownrelatives. She had a soft, caressing voice, and always assumed an airof humility, when desirous of gaining a point, that had its weight withEdward. The acknowledgment of the king's marriage was followed by aseries of the most brilliant feasts and tournaments ever witnessed inEngland.
The coronation of the new queen took place at Westminster Abbey, May26th. That morning the king had knighted thirty-two citizens, whopreceded the queen's litter on horseback. After the coronation, whichwas conducted {320}with great solemnity, a grand banquet was held, theroyal couple presiding.
Elizabeth was most unfortunate in soon incurring the ill-will ofWarwick, the prime minister, who had been all-powerful in England forseveral years. It was increased by the influence gained through herinstrumentality by the various members of her family. Before long, thepopular rage was excited against the Woodvilles, and England was in astate of insurrection.
[[A.D. 1469.]] The queen's father and one of her brothers concealedthemselves in a forest, but were discovered and beheaded, without judgeor jury. This was a dreadful blow to Elizabeth, who was warmly attachedto her family. The king went north to inquire into the cause of theoutrage, but could not get back for a long-time because Warwick and theDuke of Clarence kept him under a kind of restraint; however he escapedat last, and got back to London. Then Warwick and Clarence were sofrightened at having interfered with the king's movements that they gotaway with their families as quickly as possible and went to France.
All this time the queen was safely lodged in the Tower. But it was notvery long before Warwick returned to England, and Edward came so nearfalling into his hands again that he fled half-dressed one night just asthe troops approached the castle, and embarked on board a ship at Lynn.
Elizabeth was so alarmed for her own safety and that of her family thatshe went at once to a gloomy monastery, called the Sanctuary, where hermother and her three daughters, Elizabeth, Mary, and Cicely, accompaniedher.
[[A.D. 1470.]] It was there that the first son of Edward IV. was born.He was named after his father, and christened with as little ceremony asthough he had been the son of the poorest man in the kingdom.
{321}
[Illustration: 0325]
{323}By the time the little prince was five months old, the Duke ofClarence had parted from Warwick, and Edward returned to London, wherehe was warmly received. He hastened to meet his family, and removedthem from the Sanctuary to his mother's palace, Castle Baynard. Severalbattles that he fought and won after his return put an end to so manyof Edward's opponents--among them Warwick, the most formidable--that thehouse of York was at last firmly established in power and the rebellioncrushed. Then followed several years of peace, when the royal familywere settled at Windsor or at Westminster, holding court with greatstate and splendor.
King Edward's second son, Prince Richard, Duke of York, was born duringthis season of enjoyment, and when he was five years old he was formallymarried to Anne Mowbray, infant heiress of the Duchy of Norfolk, agedthree.
The following spring the singular death of the Duke of Clarenceoccurred. He had been condemned to execution for an offence against theking, his brother, but one morning he was found drowned in a butt ofmalmsey. Clarence was in the habit of drinking to excess, and it wassupposed that he fell into the butt of his favorite wine while in astate of intoxication.
[[A.D. 1483.]] In 1483 King Edward was seized with an attack of feverthat resulted in death. After lying in state for several days his bodywas interred with great pomp in the Chapel of St. George.
Queen Elizabeth was left in a more unprotected state this time thanwhen her first husband died. The young king was pursuing his studiesat Ludlow Castle, under the care of her brother, Lord Rivers. Elizabethproposed to the council that he should be at once escorted to Londonwith a powerful army, but Lord Hastings, who presided, {324}could seeno necessity for such a step, and so, unfortunately for young Edward, itwas not taken.
Meanwhile the Duke of Gloucester, who was in Scotland, caused Edward V.to be proclaimed at York, and wrote such a kind, deferential letter tothe queen, that she felt she had a friend in this first prince of theblood.
[Illustration: 0328]
The council then commanded Earl Rivers to bring the young king toLondon, and Elizabeth was eagerly awaiting him, when news was broughtto her that the Dukes of Gloucester and Buckingham had met him withan armed force, seized his person, and arrested Earl Rivers and LordRichard Grey, who were with him. The poor mother could scarcely believesuch an astonishing report. As soon as the Archbishop of York heardwhat had happened, he took the great seal and carried it to Elizabeth,assuring her that if an attempt were made to crown anybody but hereldest son he would take it upon himself to crown Richard. But, whenon the following day, he saw the Thames covered with boatloads ofGloucester's soldiers, placed there to watch the queen, he regrettedwhat he had done, and went to the {325}Sanctuary, where Elizabeth hadtaken refuge with the Duke of York, to get the seal back again..
The 4th of May had been appointed for the coronation of Edward V. Heentered the city surrounded by a retinue of the Duke of Gloucester'sofficers, headed by the treacherous duke himself, and, under somepretence, was lodged in the royal apartments of the Tower, thecoronation having been postponed for some trivial reason.
[Illustration: 0329]
Gloucester's next object was to get possession of Prince Richard. Hewould have taken him by force, but the Archbishop of Canterbury took itupon himself to persuade Elizabeth to give him up. This he accomplished,after a great deal of persuasion, by working upon her sympathies andtelling her of the loneliness of her eldest son, Edward, who was piningfor a playmate. At last it was agreed that the child should go to hisbrother until after the coronation, for which preparations were going onnight and day.
But the Duke of Gloucester intended that no such coronation should evertake place, so he brought shameful accusations against Elizabeth and herchildren, put several {326}of her adherents to death, and finally hadhimself crowned King of England on the 26th of June.
In less than a month from that date the two little princes, whom he hadkept shut up in the Tower, were murdered by his order. It is impossibleto describe the agony of the poor mother when she learned the fate ofher two dear little boys. She cried to God for vengeance on the wretchwho had committed so foul a crime. Only a few months later Richardof Gloucester's only son, for whose advancement he had shed so muchinnocent blood, died.
Elizabeth was forced to submit to the will of the usurper, whose acts oftyranny rendered her existence bitter in the extreme. But she livedto see her daughter Elizabeth on the throne of England, as the wife ofHenry VII., and her own restoration to liberty.
[[A.D. 1492.]] She died in 1492, attended in her last ill ness by themost affectionate care of her daughter. Her funeral was conducted withthe utmost simplicity, and she was buried at St. George's Chapel, inthe tomb with Edward IV. The monument is of steel, representing a doublegate between two ancient Gothic towers. On a flat stone, at the foot ofthis monument, is engraved:
                   King Edward, and his Queen,
                        Elizabeth Woodville.
[Illustration: 0330]
{327}



CHAPTER XX. ANNE OF WARWICK, QUEEN OF RICHARD III.
(A.D. 1454-1485.)
|Few women living only to the age of thirty-one, have known as muchsuffering and sorrow as came to the lot of Anne of Warwick in thatlimited space of time. The greater part of her childhood was passed atCalais, but she was in England with her father, the Earl of Warwick, atintervals during the struggles between the houses of York and Lancaster,in which he took such a prominent part, and fled with him in terrorafter Edward IV. escaped from his clutches. The misery and danger ofthat flight to France came to an end at last, and then succeeded a fewmonths of genuine happiness for this young girl.
[[A.D. 1470.]] The treaty concluding her marriage with Edward ofLancaster having been duly concluded, Anne was united to him shortlyafter her return to France, only to be deprived of his belovedcompanionship within the year, for he was killed at the battleof Tewksbury, and she was left a widow at seventeen. The Duke ofGloucester, being Anne's cousin, had seen a great deal of her duringher childhood, for they were nearly of the same age, and had shared eachother's pastimes. But he had such a dreadful temper, and was, besides,so disagreeable, being humpbacked and ungainly, that Anne was not fondof him. He, on the contrary, was so much in love with her, that nosooner was she free to marry than he determined to make her his wife.{328}Being under the same charge of treason that included her mother andQueen Margaret, after the Duke of Gloucester, had assumed the reinsof government, she was in his power. But she tried hard to elude hisattentions and even went so far as to take a situation in a house inLondon disguised as a cook. The wily humpback found her out, however,and placed her in a convent for safe-keeping. After a time she waspermitted to seek the protection of her uncle, the Archbishop of York,but his arrest left her again exposed to the persecutions of her hatedcousin, who, by a series of wicked deeds, forced her at last to marryhim.
[[A.D. 1473.]] The ceremony took place at Westminster in 1473, and thenpoor Anne was more unhappy than ever. She lived at Middleham Castle inYorkshire, where, for a time at least, she was rid of her hated tyrantof a husband, for he was engaged fighting the Scotch, and only returnedafter the death of Edward IV., as mentioned in the last reign.
In 1474 the son was born for whom the Earl of Gloucester had so foullysteeped his soul in crime. This child was Anne's one source of comfortand joy, and on him she lavished all her affections.
A few days after his return from Scotland the Duke of Gloucesterstarted, as we have seen, with a troop of soldiers to intercept hisnephew, Edward V., on his way to London, and proceeded with the haplessboy in his charge.
Anne joined her husband after he had caused the murder of his twonephews in the Tower, and shared the coronation for which he hadcommitted so many shameful and outrageous deeds. The very preparationsthat had been made for the coronation of Edward V. served to gracethat ceremony when his cruel uncle usurped his rights, and the same dayGloucester's son, Edward, was created Prince of Wales.
{329}
[Illustration: 0333]
{331}A banquet succeeded, and every detail of the entire ceremony wasconducted with great splendor. Then the royal couple, attended by theprince, passed through the metropolis in procession and took up theirabode at Windsor Castle. Later they kept court in grand style at WarwickCastle for a week, and afterwards travelled through the kingdom. At Yorkthese new sovereigns were crowned once more, and soon after Richard III.was recalled to London on account of an insurrection headed by theDuke of Buckingham. Anne accompanied him, leaving her son under theprotection of friends in the north, where she thought he would be saferthan in London. She never beheld the child again, for he died duringher absence. The shock caused by this sudden and dreadful calamity socrushed the unfortunate mother that her health began to decline.
When she was ill and suffering her wicked husband was more unkind toher than ever. He seemed anxious to be rid of her, and shed only a fewhypocritical tears when she
In 1485 the heart-broken Anne of Warwick was buried at Westminster, notfar from the altar.
Richard III. was killed at the battle of Bosworth within the year.
[Illustration: 0335]
{332}



CHAPTER XXI. ELIZABETH OF YORK, QUEEN OF HENRY VII.
(A.D. 1466-1503.)
|This princess was the daughter of Edward IV. and Elizabeth Woodville,whose secret marriage caused so much trouble. She was shut up in thesanctuary while her father's throne was in jeopardy, and danced at theballs given to celebrate his restoration. She was at that time only sixyears old, and when she reached the advanced age of nine her hand hadbeen promised in marriage four times as a peace-offering from her fatherto other monarchs.
Elizabeth was well educated, for at a very early age she could read andwrite her own language, as well as French and Spanish. She was sixteenwhen her little brothers were murdered in the Tower, and her love forthem had been so great that she grieved very deeply over their cruelfate. Her engagement with Henry of Richmond, who afterwards ascendedthe throne, turned her attention from this dreadful event somewhat.Elizabeth was separated from her mother when they left the sanctuary,and went to the court of Richard III., whose queen always treated herwith great kindness and consideration.
Lord Stanley, Henry Tudor's stepfather, occupied a very high positionat court, and to him the Princess Elizabeth applied for assistance ingetting possession of the throne, to which she knew she had a right.Stanley had several secret interviews with the princess on this subject,and assured her that, at his bidding, his adherents in the north-
{333}
[Illustration: 0337]
{335}west would fly to her side, armed and equipped for battle. But,like many of the earls of his day, Lord Stanley could not write, andhe did not dare trust a public scribe with his directions. ThereuponElizabeth assured him that if he would only dictate, and affix his seal,she would do all the necessary writing. For this purpose they met indisguise. Six letters were duly prepared and sealed, and committed tothe care of Humphrey Brereton, a knight who had been attached to thecause of Edward IV. These dangerous despatches were delivered accordingto their directions, and on his return from the expedition Brereton metStanley and Elizabeth at an old inn in the suburbs of London, with aparty of gentlemen who had returned with him. This meeting took placeat night, and when Elizabeth had satisfied herself that no prejudiceexisted among these men against her Lancastrian lover, she agreed tosend him a ring through them as a token that he might trust himselfin Stanley's power. Brereton carried this ring to Henry, who was at amonastery some miles from Rennes. The lover kissed his lady's present,but kept the messenger waiting three weeks for his answer. Henry Tudorhad been a fugitive and a prisoner nearly all his life, and extremecaution had become second nature to him.
At last he consented to undertake an expedition that would either makeor mar him, and sailed from Harfleur with a large fleet. He was receivedin England with a hearty welcome, for the people regarded him as asaviour who was to preserve them from Richard's tyranny.
[[A.D. 1485.]] On the evening of the 21st of August, 1485, three weeksafter his arrival, Henry encamped with his army near Bosworth. Thenext day the celebrated battle was fought, which terminated the life ofRichard III., and placed Henry Tudor on the throne.
After the death of Anne of Warwick Richard III. had {336}sent his niece,Elizabeth, to a castle in Yorkshire, where she was kept as a closeprisoner, and the first intimation she had of her royal lover's successwas when the people of the neighborhood gathered about the gloomybuilding with shouts of joy. A guard of nobility and gentry escorted herin state to London, and she went in company with her mother to live atWestminster Palace.
Henry VII. was recognized as King of England, and crowned soon after;but he seemed in no hurry about his marriage, which did not take placeuntil January 18th of the following year. The event was celebrated withbonfires, banquets, dancing and songs, and the prelate who performedthe ceremony held a bunch of red and white roses, tied together for thefirst time. This was in commemoration of the union of the rival housesof York and Lancaster.
[[A.D. 1486.]] The royal couple then went to live at Winchester, wherein the course of a year their first child was born. He was named Arthur,after King Henry's favorite hero and ancestor.
[[A.D. 1487.]] The birth of this prince was succeeded by his mother'scoronation, which took place in November, 1487. On the Friday beforethat important ceremony Elizabeth went with her husband from London toGreenwich. She was accompanied on the river Thames by a grand pageant ofboats, the finest being rowed by the students of Lincoln's Inn, who hadbeautiful music performed on their barge throughout the route, and keptside by side with that of the queen. That night was passed at the Tower,where the king created eleven Knights of the Bath, and the next dayElizabeth proceeded through the city to Westminster Palace. An immensecrowd collected to behold their queen, as this was her first publicappearance since her marriage. {337}She was not quite twenty-two; herfigure was tall and handsome; her complexion fair and brilliant. She had,besides, soft blue eyes and delicate features, set off by a profusionof yellow hair. Her costume on this occasion was a gown of white silk,brocaded with gold, and a mantle of the same material, bordered withermine and fastened across the breast with gold cords and tassels. Aclose-fitting cap, formed of rich gems in a golden network, encircled herhead, and her hair fell loosely around her shoulders.
The young queen was borne in an open litter, and four of the new Knightsof the Bath supported a rich canopy over her head. She was preceded byfour baronesses, riding on gray horses, and Henry's Uncle Jasper, asgrand steward. Lord Stanley, now Earl of Derby, was high constable,and the Earl of Oxford, Lord Chamberlain. The queen was followed by hersister Cicely, who sat in an open chariot with the Duchess of Bedford,and a long train of other vehicles containing noble ladies, the rearbeing brought up by six baronesses on horseback. The streets were alldecorated, and a chorus of children, dressed as angels, sang the queen'spraises as she passed along.
The following morning Elizabeth entered Westminster Hall in a rich robeof purple velvet edged with ermine. A coronet of gold, set with largepearls and colored gems, encircled her brow. She stood under a canopy ofstate, and then, followed by her attendants, proceeded to the abbey. Astrip of carpet over which she walked was cut to pieces and distributedamong the throng assembled to gaze upon her, and so eager were they topossess themselves of this memento that several people were trampled todeath. King Henry and his mother took no part in the coronation, butsat in a latticed box placed for their use, and observed both the churchceremony and the banquet, at which the queen presided, afterwards. Fromthat time she appeared in public with all the splendor of a Queen ofEngland.
[[A.D. 1489.]] In 1489 a little princess was born; she was namedMargaret after the king's mother, who presented the infant with a silverbox filled with gold pieces. At the christening a play was performedbefore the royal family at the palace.
[[A.D. 1491.]] The second prince, who afterwards reigned as Henry VIII.,was born June 28, 1491. He was always remarkable for strength and robusthealth, but we shall have more to say about him hereafter.
Queen Elizabeth was so generous, not only to her own family, butto those of her subjects who brought her trifling presents of earlyvegetables, fruit, or flowers, that she often found herself in debt, andhad to pawn her plate or jewels to satisfy her creditors. But her ownwants were limited, and she managed her personal expenses with economy.
[[A.D. 1495.]] In 1495 the king and queen were in great trouble onaccount of the invasion of Perkin Warbeck, who was married to one ofHenry's nearest relatives. This man was an impostor, but so active inhis movements, appearing in quick succession in various parts of therealm, that for seven long years there was danger of his usurping thecrown. At last, the battle of Blackheath decided his cause; for it waswon by King Henry, and Perkin was soon after captured. Henry didnot wish to shed the blood of this kinsman, but it became absolutelynecessary before peace could be restored. He was therefore hanged atTyburn, November 16, 1499. The Earl of Warwick had allowed himself tobecome so implicated in Perkin's schemes that he too was condemned todeath; his execution took place on Tower Hill a fortnight later.
[[A.D. 1499.]] A dreadful plague broke out in England, the same year,and the king felt so alarmed for the safety of his family that he tookthem to Calais, where they resided for a couple of months. During thatperiod two marriages of great importance were agreed upon. One wasbetween the little Princess Mary, Henry's youngest daughter, andCharles, son of the archduke, Philip of Austria; the other was betweenArthur, Prince of Wales, and Katharine of Arragon, but within fivemonths, Prince Arthur was dead. The king and queen were at GreenwichPalace when the loss of their eldest son was made known to them.Each tried to comfort the other and to bear the sad bereavement withChristian fortitude. But Arthur had been a promising youth, and it waslong before his afflicted mother could reconcile herself to his death.
The following January, 1502, the Princess Margaret was betrothedto James VI. of Scotland. The ceremony was performed at St. Paul'sCathedral and presided over by the queen, who afterwards led herdaughter by the hand to a grand banquet prepared at the Bishop ofLondon's Palace Margaret, who was only a little over twelve years of ageremained in England to finish her education under her mother's care.
[[A.D. 1503.]] But on February 11, 1503, the gentle, pious, lovely,and dearly-loved Queen Elizabeth expired, suddenly, after a very shortillness. This event cast a gloom over the whole city; the bells of St.Paul's and of all the churches in London tolled dismally, and the utmostsorrow was felt in every household.
The queen's body was embalmed and placed within the Tower Chapel whereit lay in state for twelve days. Then? after mass had been celebrated,it was placed in a hearse covered with black velvet, on which was alarge white cross. An image exactly representing the queen was placedin a chair above. This image was decked out with royal robes, crown,sceptre, jewels and everything just as Elizabeth had appeared whenliving. Four women kneeled by the chair, on top of the hearse, whichwas drawn by six horses, in black velvet trappings, from the Tower toWestminster.
[Illustration: 0344]
The horses were led by men robed in black; eight ladies of honor rodesingly after the hearse, followed by the lordmayor, other authorities,and a long train of citizens. At every door in the city stood a manbearing a lighted torch, and at various points groups of thirty-sevenvirgins, that number corresponding with the queen's age, were stationed,all dressed in white and holding lighted tapers. Torches burned beforeall the churches, and bands of monks and nuns, singing anthems, met thefuneral procession as it moved along. The Earl of Derby led a party ofnobles, who preceded the hearse into the churchyard of St. Margaret,Westminster. The body was carried into the abbey, where it was placed ona dais richly covered with velvet drapery, on which the queen's motto:"Humble and Reverent," was embroidered. All the lords and ladies inattendance then retired to Westminster Palace and took supper. Nextmorning the remains of Elizabeth were put in the grave.
Henry VII. lived seven years after his wife's death, and developed somevery bad traits when her influence was removed. He had never permittedher to have any voice in the government of the realm, but in her gentleloving manner she had prompted him to many a generous, sensible action.He died in 1509, and was buried in the splendid chapel at WestminsterAbbey which bears his name.
[Illustration: 345]
{342}



CHAPTER XXII. KATHARINE OF ARRAGON, FIRST QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1485-1536.)
|Katharine of Arragon was born when her native land was at the veryheight of its prosperity. Her parents were Ferdinand and Isabella, thepowerful and popular sovereigns, who had conquered nearly the whole ofSpain.
Katharine's early infancy was passed in a camp where Queen Isabellaresided with her young family while her army besieged the town ofGranada. This siege lasted for several years, but the town was taken atlast; and when Katharine was four years old she accompanied her parentsin their grand triumphal entry into Granada, where she lived until shewent to England.
Her residence was in the Alhambra, that gorgeous palace, once the abodeof the Moorish kings, always an object of wonder and admiration, even tothis very day when it is almost in ruins. Part of her time was passed inthe cool, shady bowers of the Generalife, the fairy palace which stoodon a mountain high above the Alhambra, in the midst of luxuriant groves,fruit, flowers, arbors and hedges, such as only a southern climate canproduce. It was from this home that Katharine took her device of thepomegranate, which was used during her reign in England as a decoration.This fruit was once a production of Granada, and was worked on thecoat-of-arms of the Moorish kings.
Queen Isabella was the most learned princess of her time in Europe, andknew the importance of a good edu-
{343}
[Illustration: 0347]
cation {345}for her four daughters. Consequently she provided them withthe very best tutors she could find, and they early became excellentLatin scholars. Katharine read the Scriptures in that tongue, andthroughout her whole life continued to study it.
When she was sixteen years old Henry VII. of England sent ambassadorsto Spain to demand her hand in marriage for his son, Prince Arthur. Theunion was agreed upon, and Katharine sailed with four young ladies andother attendants for Plymouth, where she was received by a crowd ofnobility and gentry, who entertained her all the time she was amongstthem with a variety of sports peculiar to their country. As soon as herarrival was known the king sent Lord Brook, steward of the royal palace,to provide everything for her comfort. The Duchess of Norfolk and theEarl of Surrey went to meet her also, and the former remained as hercompanion.
The following month the king himself set out for Plymouth, but the roadswere in such a wet, muddy condition that it was several days before hereached East Hampstead, where he met Prince Arthur, who did not untilthen know of the arrival of his bride. Next morning they continued theirjourney, but had not gone far when they were met by a party of Spanishcavaliers on horseback, who stopped them, and in a most solemn mannerinformed them that they could not proceed further, because their Moorishcustoms forbade the royal bridegroom or his father to look upon the faceof the bride until she stood at the altar.
King Henry was amazed. He was quite willing to observe all reasonableforms and ceremonies, but to his English ideas this seemed thoroughlyabsurd, and he was not willing to turn back.
He had come to a dead halt in the drenching rain on that cold Novembermorning, and felt rather cross at having {346}his progress thusinterrupted. After a few moments consideration he called his councillorsabout him, and asked what he should do. A long discussion ensued, andthe conclusion was, "that the Spanish infanta, being now in the heartof this realm of which King Henry was master, he might look at her if heliked." This suited the king precisely, and, leaving his son behind, herode rapidly forward to the next town, where Katharine had arrived onlya couple of hours before. Her retinue were thrown into a terriblestate of perplexity when Henry made a request to see her, and presentedhimself for that purpose at the very door of her apartments. Anarchbishop, a bishop, and a count stood guard, and informed the king"that the lady infanta had retired to her chamber." But the moreopposition he met with the more his curiosity was aroused, and the moredetermined was he to see the bride. He declared that "if she were evenin bed he meant to see and speak with her, for that was his mind and thewhole intent of his coming."
There was nothing more to be said, and further opposition might havegiven serious offence to the monarch, therefore the infanta dressedherself and admitted him. The interview must have been ratherunsatisfactory, because neither could speak the language of the other;however somebody must have interpreted what was said, for King Henryseemed much pleased.
He withdrew, to change his damp garments, and within half an hourpresented himself again at Katharine's door, this time with the prince,who had followed him. In the presence of several bishops and nobles theyoung people went through the ceremony of betrothal, which was donein Latin, and therefore understood by both. After supper the king andPrince Arthur returned to the infanta's apartments, where the eveningwas passed in music and dancing, {347}
[Illustration: 0351]
interspersed with singing by the minstrels. Prince Arthur could not joinin the Spanish dances, but he knew the English ones, and went throughthe figures with one of the ladies of his own country.
Katharine continued her journey next day, and on her arrival at Kingstonwas met by the Duke of Buckingham on horseback, the Earl of Kent, LordHenry Stafford, the Abbot of Bury, and four hundred dukes and gentlemen,in the Stafford livery of scarlet and black, who came to welcome herinto the realm. She rested at that place all night, and was escortedto Kensington Palace next day by Buckingham and his train. There shestopped until the Spanish retinue, as well as all the nobility ofEngland, could make the necessary preparations for her grand entry toLondon.
In the meantime King Henry went to meet his wife at Richmond, and totell her what he thought of their new daughter-in-law. The royal couplethen came down the Thames, in a barge, with a party of ladies to welcomethe stranger.
Three days later the infanta entered the city by London Bridge, ridingon a large mule, according to the Spanish custom. The Duke of York rodeon her right and the pope's ambassador on her left. She had on a broad,round hat, the shape of those worn by cardinals, tied down at the sideswith a scarf of gold lace. Under this hat was a closely-fitting red cap,and her long dark hair streamed over her shoulders. Her four Spanishdamsels followed on mules, each led by an English lady, dressed in clothof gold and riding on a small horse. After these came the whole grandprocession, and all advanced to Bishop's Palace.
[[A.D. 1501.]] Four days later the marriage ceremony was performed atSt. Paul's Cathedral, on a platform six feet high and large enough tohold eight persons. The were present at the ceremony. The king and queensat in a box that had been built for their use near the platform. Afterthe ceremony the bride and bridegroom followed the churchmen to the highaltar, where mass was celebrated. Standing in the great doorway ofthe cathedral, Prince Arthur endowed his bride with one-third of hisproperty. The princess was then led by her brother-in-law, young Henry,to the Bishop's Palace of St. Paul's, where a banquet was spread. Thenewly-wedded couple were served {350}bride, who never entirely gave upher Spanish style of dress, wore a closely-fitting cap of white silk,from which hung the Spanish mantilla, embroidered with gold, pearls andprecious stones, that almost concealed her figure. Her body and sleeveswere made very full, and she wore a large hoop under her skirts.
[Illustration: 0354]
Prince Arthur was dressed in white satin. The Archbishop of Canterburyand nineteen bishops and abbots {351}on gold plate, ornamented withpearls and precious stones, valued at twenty thousand pounds.
The following week a grand tournament was held in the open space infront of Westminster Hall. There was a stage erected for the royalparty. On the right entered the king and his lords; on the left, thequeen, the bride, and their ladies, and took their seats on richlyembroidered cushions, under a canopy draped with cloth of gold. Theplaces, that were arranged one above another, in rows like those in acircus, to form an enormous circle, were so packed with people thatonly their heads could be seen. Presently loud blasts from the trumpetsannounced the arrival of the knights, who were borne into the arenaunder fanciful canopies. The Earl of Essex sat in a pavilion amongtrees, flowers, and rocks, with curious-looking animals climbing up thesides. A handsome young lady, fantastically dressed, stood on a greenhill above the earl. The Marquis of Dorset appeared in a pavilion alldraped in gold, wearing a complete suit of armor. Lord William Courtenayrode an enormous red dragon, led by a giant carrying a tree in hishands. There were twenty or thirty in all of these curiously-adornedknights, who marched around the arena to the delight of the audience,and then engaged in a tilt that caused many a bruise and scratch, but noserious damage to anybody.
When evening came on the royal company withdrew to Westminster Hall. Atthe upper end was a dais with elevated seats for the king, queen, thebride and groom, and the king's mother. All the ladies sat on the leftside and the gentlemen on the right, and the nobility, who were notengaged in the performance or ballets that followed, took their placeson the king's side of the hall according to their rank. When a coupledesired to dance between the entrances of the regular performers, thegentleman would {352}advance to the front of the dais from his side,the lady would do the same from hers, and after a few minutes' dancingreturn to their respective places. The first pageant was a full-riggedship drawn in on wheels. The mariners performed their duties as thoughthey were really at sea, and used only seafaring terms. Next came acastle all lighted up inside, eight young women appearing at the windowshandsomely attired in the newest styles. At the top window of the castlesat a lady in Spanish costume representing Katharine of Arragon. Theprincess must have been amused when she saw her double, who sat up quitehaughtily, while two gentlemen courted her and sought in every possibleway to gain her favor. For a while she treated their attentions withdisdain, but at last, as in all ballets, matters took a favorable turn;the ladies came out of the castle, were joined by the sailors fromthe ship, and the whole party danced a grand set of exceedingly prettyfigures, and then disappeared into the castle again. This structure wasdrawn by marvellous gold and silver lions harnessed with massive goldchains. But we must explain what these beasts really were. In each onewere two men, one in the fore and the other in the hind quarters, socompletely hidden that nothing appeared of them but their legs, whichwere made to look like those of the real lions. Then Prince Arthurdanced with his aunt, the Princess Cicely, Henry, Duke of York, with hissister Margaret, and Katharine with one of her Spanish ladies. There wasconsiderable difference in the two styles of dancing, for the Englishmovements were quick and lively, while those of the Spanish were slowand stately, resembling a minuet. The king and queen were much pleasedwith these performances of their children, and watched them with a greatdeal of pride.
At a grand dinner given in Parliament Chamber on the {353}
[Illustration: 0357]
following Sunday, Katharine distributed the prizes won in the tilt. Tothe Duke of Buckingham she gave a valuable diamond; to the Marquisof Dorset, a superb ruby, and to the others, rings set with preciousstones.
[Illustration: 0359]
A week later the court went to Richmond, where, after mass on the firstSunday, they all assembled in the gardens and played games of chess,backgammon, cards, and dice, while some Spaniards entertained them withtumbling and dancing. In the evening a huge rock was drawn by threesea-horses into the grand hall, where the ladies and gentlemen wereassembled. On either side of the rock were mermaids made of shells, andinside of the figures were the {356}sweet-voiced children who sang inthe king's chapel. These could not be seen, but their harmony filled theair as the rock was drawn slowly through the whole length of the hall.When it reached the platform on which sat the royal family, a largenumber of white doves flew out, and live rabbits ran about thehall, causing great shouting and merriment. King Henry closed theentertainment by making rich gifts of plate to the lords and ladies fromSpain, who then took leave of their princess, as they were going backhome.
Katharine looked very sad after they had left her, and the kingobserving this sent word for her and her ladies to join him in hislibrary. There he showed them all the pretty English and Latin booksthat he thought would please them, laughed and chatted in a kindfriendly manner with his daughter-in-law, and then asked her to selectsome jewels from a lot that he had ordered for her. After she hadmade her choice, he distributed the rest among her ladies, and so wonKatharine's heart by his warm, affectionate treatment that she ceased tofeel depressed in her English home.
A few months later the princess went with her husband to Wales, wherethey were to have a little court of their own similar to the one atWestminster. Katharine performed the journey on horseback, and when shefelt fatigued she rested on a litter, borne between two horses. This wasthe only mode of travelling before turnpike roads were made.
The Prince and Princess of Wales made themselves very popular intheir new home, but they did not stay there long, for Arthur was takensuddenly ill, and died of the plague the following April, 1502, just sixmonths after his marriage.
[[A.D. 1502.]] The queen was sorely grieved at the sudden death of hereldest child, but she did not forget to sympathize with the young widowleft alone in a strange land, the language of which had hardly becomefamiliar to {357}her ear. She sent for her immediately, and had herbrought to London in a litter covered with black velvet and black cloththat must have looked very like a hearse, and settled her in a palacecalled Arragon House, where she spent part of her widowhood. Hermarriage portion consisted of two hundred thousand crowns. Half the sumhad been paid, and her parents being unwilling to pay the other half,requested that their daughter should be returned to them. But Henry VII.wanted to get hold of the other half of his daughter-in-law's portion,he therefore proposed a marriage between her and his younger son Henry.This was accepted by the sovereigns of Spain, providing a dispensationfrom the pope could be obtained. This was necessary on account of therelationship.
Katharine seems to have been very unhappy at this time, and wrote herfather that she had no desire to marry again, adding, "that she did notwish him to consider her tastes or wishes, but to act in all things assuited him best."
Such dutiful conduct excites our surprise when we consider that she wasthe principal person concerned. It seems quite natural that at the ageof eighteen she should have objected to a union with a boy five yearsyounger, even though he had not been so nearly related to her.
Notwithstanding her objections, two such diplomatists as King Ferdinandand Henry VII. were pretty sure to arrange matters to suit themselves,and about a year after Katharine became a widow, she was betrothed tothe young prince. Six years elapsed before the marriage was celebrated,during which period Henry VII. died, and his son Henry ascended thethrone. Immediately after this event he assured the Spanish ambassadorof his attachment to Katharine, saying that he loved her better than anyother woman in the world.
There was a great deal of discussion among the church{358]men onaccount of the relationship existing between Henry and Katharine, butat last all difficulties were overcome and they were married. A few dayslater the coronation took place at Westminster.
[[A.D. 1510.]] On this occasion the streets of London were as usual alldecorated, and part of the way to the abbey was lined with young maidensdressed in pure white, bearing palms of white wax in their hands. Theywere attended by priests swinging silver censers as the king and queenpassed by. Katharine was attired as a bride in white embroidered satin-,her dark hair fell in rich profusion down her back, and on her head shewore a crown set with rich jewels. She was seated in a litter coveredwith white cloth of gold, borne by two white horses, and was followed byall the noble ladies of England in little chariots. After the coronationa grand banquet was spread in Westminster Hall. The king and queenwere served on an elevated platform at the upper end of the hall,while several ladies of high rank sat at Katharine's feet holding herpocket-handkerchief, table-napkin, fan and purse. At the end of a weekthe festivities came suddenly to an end on account of the death of theking's grandmother. Then a pestilence broke out in London, and thecourt removed to Richmond Place, where Henry planned all sorts ofperformances, parties and masquerades, in which he enjoyed taking part.Katharine did not care so much for that kind of diversion, for she wasnaturally quiet and studious, and felt more interested in practicalemployment.
At one of the Christmas festivals the king slyly left her side duringthe progress of a tournament, and returned in the disguise of a knight,astonishing all the company with the grace and skill of his tilting. Theapplause he received induced him to take part often in these exercises,and when he would present himself before his wife in different{359}disguises she good-humoredly pretended to be very much mystified.Once he entered her room with several nobles dressed as Robin Hood andhis men, and another time when the foreign ambassadors were invitedto dine at court Henry conducted his wife to her throne, then suddenlydisappeared, and in a few minutes returned with the Earl of Essex, bothdisguised as Turks, while other nobles followed him in Russian, Persianand Moorish costumes, the last having their faces blacked. The king'sbeautiful sister, Mary, with several of the court ladies, danced aballet in mask, which amused Katharine very much, particularly as theprincess was attired like an Ethiopian queen. In all the decorationsused on these occasions the pomegranate was mingled with the rosesof York and Lancaster, and the Tudor device of the hawthorn with itsscarlet berries.
[Illustration: 0363]
At the close of the year 1510 the queen had a little boy, {360}and hewas named Henry. The king was so much pleased at this event that a grandtournament was given to celebrate it. In the evening a nobleman cameto inform the queen that there was a gold arbor full of ladies whohad prepared something for her entertainment. Katharine answered verygraciously "that both she and her ladies would be happy to behold themand their pastimes." Then a large curtain was drawn aside, and an arbormoved forward. It had posts and pillars covered with gold and twinedwith branches of hawthorn, roses and eglantine, all made of satinand silk, the colors of the different flowers. In the arbor were sixbeautiful young girls in white and green satin dresses, covered with theletters H. and K. knit together with gold lacing. Near the bower stoodthe king himself, with five lords dressed in purple satin, likewisecovered with the gold letters H. and K. Then they all danced beforeKatharine, and while they were thus engaged a very different scene wasgoing on at the other end of the hall. The golden arbor that the ladiesleft for the dance had been rolled back close to where a large crowd ofLondoners had gathered to see the grand doings at court, as they alwaysdid in those days. They began to finger the ornaments, and finally topluck them off until they had entirely stripped the bower. The chiefsteward tried to prevent this destruction, but not wishing to disturbthe ballet by using violence he failed entirely. Meanwhile the kingfinished his performance, and feeling in an excellent humor at itssuccess he called to the women in the crowd to come and help themselvesto the golden letters from his dress and that of his company. Little didhe imagine what would be the result of this order, for scarcely was itgiven than the whole assembly rushed forward like a mob, and seized notonly on him but all his guests, helping themselves to every glitteringornament that was in sight {361}They even went so far as to takethe jewels of the ladies, and to strip the king of most of his fineclothing. One of the gentlemen was left with nothing on but hisflannels. It was amazing what a clean sweep was made in a few minutesof all the finery. At last the guards succeeded in clearing the hallwithout bloodshed, and the king laughing heartily handed his wife to thebanquet in his own chamber, where the court sat down in their tatteredcondition, treating the whole scramble as a frolic. No doubt the youngking had received a lesson by which he profited later. A few weeks afterhis birth the young prince died, much lamented by everybody at court.
The following year Henry invaded France in person, leaving the queennot only with the reins of government in her own hands, but making herbesides captain of all his forces, with the assistance of five nobles.During the king's absence the Scots invaded his kingdom, but wererepulsed. It is remarkable that two of the greatest victories gainedover that nation were those of Neville's Cross and Flodden Field, bothfought under the management of queens in the absence of their husbands.
After the battle at Neville's Cross Katharine went on a pilgrimage toWalsingham shrine, and returned just in time to welcome her husband, whotook her by surprise at Richmond, where there was a most lovingmeeting between the royal couple. He had travelled through his realm indisguise, therefore the queen had not been informed that he was comingso soon.
[[A.D. 1514.]] Henry had been victorious in France, and the war endedthere by the marriage of his beautiful young sister Mary and LouisXII. Anne Boleyn, who was then a young girl, went with the bride as herattendant.
Mary was in love with the Duke of Suffolk when she was forced into thismarriage with the King of France. In less {362}than three months theyoung husband died, and then the duke, who was sent to France to takecare of the widow and her property, married her. Henry VIII. wasvery angry at first at the sly way in which this love-affair had beenmanaged, but Katharine made peace between the brother and sister, andinvited the young couple to Greenwich Palace, where she entertained themwith a grand festival.
On the first of May the king gave a party, which was conducted in thisway: Katharine, with the young bride and all the court ladies, rode fromthe palace to Shooter's Hill, where the king, with the archers of hisbody-guard, met them, dressed like Robin Hood and his outlaws, andbegged that the royal party "would enter the good greenwood and see howoutlaws lived."
Katharine graciously consented, and was led to a rustic bower, coveredwith hawthorn boughs and spring flowers, where a fine breakfast ofvenison and other good things was laid out. This lodge in the wildernessdelighted all the ladies, and a couple of hours were very pleasantlypassed in eating and chatting. On their return to Greenwich they weremet by a car, all decorated with natural flowers and ribbons, and drawnby five horses. Each horse was ridden by a fair damsel, dressed in gaycolors, and in the car, amidst garlands of flowers, stood lady May,attended by the goddess Flora. As soon as the queen appeared at the footof the hill these young girls began a hymn about the return of spring,and preceded the royal party all the way home, singing as they movedalong.
[[A.D. 1520.]] Queen Katharine had two royal visitors at her palace. Onewas Queen Margaret, widow of James IV. of Scotland, who took refugewith Henry VIII. from the troubles in her own country; the other was hernephew, who afterwards became so illustrious as the Emperor {363}
[Illustration: 0367]
{365}Charles V. The latter spent several days with his aunt, whoentertained him royally, then proceeded with the English Court to thatcongress with the King and Queen of France known on account of itssplendor as the Field of the Cloth of Gold. At that meeting the carpetbeneath Katharine's throne was all embroidered in pearls, and thedecorations of the camp were of corresponding magnificence.
At that time Katharine formed a warm friendship for Queen Claude ofFrance, surnamed the Good, a lady of superior intellect and taste. Henryand King Francis also became very much attached to each other, thoughthat did not prevent their fighting when an opportunity offered.
When Charles V. parted from his Aunt Katharine she presented him witha beautiful English horse, and a saddlecloth, of gold tissue, borderedwith precious stones. On his return home, he often spoke of Katharine'shappiness in having married so grand a prince as Henry VIII.
While Queen Katharine was in power several improvements were made inEngland, particularly in the cultivation of fruit and flowers. Duringthe wars some of the finest trees had disappeared entirely, butKatharine had them replanted, as well as salad, cabbage and carrots,which she imported for that purpose from the Holland.
An old rhyme says:--
               "Hops and turkeys, carps and beer,
               Came to England all in one year."
We cannot help wondering why hops were cultivated, because Henry VIII.,who interfered in all the most trifling concerns of his subjects,forbade them to put hops in their ale. The turkeys were brought fromNorth America by a lieutenant in Sebastian Cabot's voyage of discovery.
Before giving an account of Katharine's wrongs and {366}sufferings,which began after she had been married about ten years, let us see howboth she and King Henry VIII. are described by people who lived in theirtime.
Sebastiano Giustiniani, an Italian who lived in England, says, writingin 1519:--
"His majesty is about twenty-nine years of age, as handsome as naturecould form him,--handsomer by far than the King of France. He isexceedingly fair, and as well-proportioned as possible. When he heardthat the King of France wore a beard he allowed his to grow also,which, being somewhat red, has the appearance of being of gold. He is anexcellent musician and composer, an admirable horseman and wrestler. Hepossesses a good knowledge of the French, Latin, and Spanish languages,and is very devout. On the days when he goes hunting he hears mass threetimes, but on other days as often as five times. He has vesper serviceevery day in the queen's chamber. He is uncommonly fond of the chase,and every time he attends one he tires out eight or ten horses,stationed at different places where he proposes to stop. When one isfatigued he mounts another, and by the time he returns home they are allused up. He takes great delight in bowling, and it is the pleasantestsight in the world to see him engaged in this exercise with his fairskin covered with a beautifully fine shirt. Affable and benign, heoffends none, and has often said to his ambassadors that he wished everyone were as content with his condition as he was."
Katharine was then about thirty-four, but looked no older than herhusband, because he was a robust, burly man, while she had a slender,stately figure. Her face was oval, features regular, with a sweet, calmlook, though rather heavy. Her forehead was unusually high, and she hadlarge, dark eyes, and a bright brunette complexion. She usually wore afive-cornered cap, bordered with rich gems, that stood up {367}aroundher head like a crown, and came down the sides of her face, coveringthe ears. From this cap hung the black Spanish mantilla, and around herthroat, waist and wrists were clusters of rubies, linked together withstrings of pearls, pendants of the same from the belt, reaching almostto her feet. In one of her portraits she is represented in a robe ofdark-blue velvet, with a long train, bordered with sable fur, straightsleeves, with ruffles around the hand, loose hanging sleeves over them,and a petticoat of gold-colored satin, that shows beneath the velvetdress, raised on one side.
Katharine was very pious, self-denying, and almost a nun in herperformance of religious duties. She would rise at different times ofthe night for prayers, and always dressed for the day at five o'clock inthe morning. She wore the habit of the St. Francis order of nuns beneathher royal robes, and unlike the ladies of the present day, she was oftenheard to say that she considered no part of her time so much wasted asthat passed in dressing and adorning herself.
She fasted on Fridays and Saturdays and on all the saints' days,confessed every week, and received the Eucharist every Sunday. For twohours after dinner one of her attendants read books on religion to her.
Notwithstanding this devotion Katharine enjoyed lively conversation, andoften invited Sir Thomas More, whose society gave her great pleasure, toher private suppers with the king. She was fond of needle-work also,and left some rich specimens of her skill, that were for a long timepreserved in the Tower.
Although she took great interest in all English customs, and tried tomake her subjects forget that she was a foreigner, she never could fancyfield-sports, though Henry expressed great displeasure because she wouldnot mount.
[Illustration: 0372]
Cardinal Wolsey occupied a prominent position in England at this time,and he was a very good friend to Katharine until she felt compelled toexpress her opinion of a certain bad action of his, which was broughtabout in this way: One day the Duke of Buckingham was holding the basinfor the king to wash his hands when the cardinal poked his in also. Theduke became very indignant at such presumption, for he consideredit beneath his dignity to perform such an office for anybody but hissovereign; he therefore flung the water all over the cardinal's feet,whereupon that worthy prelate scowled revengefully, and angrily {368}ahorse and hunt as Englishwomen did. For his sake she pretended to likegames, though she really had little taste in that direction. Even afterher misfortunes began, the great Erasmus said to Henry: "Your noble wifespends the time reading the sacred volume which other princesses occupywith cards and dice." That renowned scholar always held her up as anexample to her sex, and dedicated a very important work to her, called"Christian Matrimony." {369}threatened punishment. He carried it intoeffect, and succeeded in causing the execution of the duke on a chargeof treasonable sorcery.
Buckingham had been one of Katharine's earliest friends in England, andshe could not help remonstrating against the injustice of his sentence.She even pleaded for him with the king, but failed. Wolsey's oppositionwas too strong, so Katharine revenged herself by openly censuring hiscruel conduct, for which he never forgave her.
The next year Charles V. visited his aunt again at Greenwich Palace.He came really for the purpose of urging the king to make war againstFrance, though he pretended that it was to engage himself to his littlecousin, Princess Mary, then only six years old.
Queen Katharine met him at the hall-door, with her daughter by her side,and blessed him as he kneeled down before her. He stayed in England sixweeks, and the result of his visit was more fighting in France.
Then Anne Boleyn returned home, and was appointed maid of honor toQueen Katharine. She was a great beauty, and such a belle at court thatunhappily Henry fell in love with her. But he did not make his feelingsknown just then because the queen's health was very bad, and no doubthe flattered himself that she might accommodate him by dying, and thusspare him the trouble of a divorce. However she grew better, and then,with Wolsey's assistance, Henry began to make plans for ridding himselfof her. His first step was to complain to his confessor that hisconscience troubled him for having married his brother's widow, butit seems strange that that inward monitor had been silent for so manyyears. He set spies to watch Katharine's actions, hoping, no doubt,that something might be discovered to help his cause; but he wasdisappointed, and the queen was secretly informed of his intentions.{370}Naturally she was very indignant, and wanted to consult her nephew,Charles V., as to what she ought to do. For that purpose she sent afaithful servant, but he was stopped on the way by one of Wolsey'sagents.
She then expressed her intention of going to law about the matter, andconsulted her confessor, hoping that it would be laid before the church.The poor, friendless woman might have known that she could scarcely lookfor justice in a land not her own against a popular sovereign and hisall-powerful adviser. She had an interview with her husband, but he puther off with deceitful excuses and fair promises, and she was forced toawait patiently whatever his pleasure might prompt.
In the meantime a pestilence broke out in London, and several ofthe royal household died of it. This so alarmed Henry that he madethirty-nine wills, confessed his sins every day, and passed most of histime in penitence and prayer, his only recreation being the mixing ofmedicines and the compounding of plasters and ointments. He even sentAnne Boleyn home to her relations. But no sooner did the pestilencedisappear than his jovial spirits returned, and he began to write dailylove-letters to his favorite. Wolsey, to aid the king's divorce, hadmade the pope believe that Katharine wished to retire from the world andlead a religious life, and it is possible that he thought she might bepersuaded to do so.
[[A.D. 1528.]] She did not know of this deception until Campeggio, thepope's legate, arrived in England in 1528. Then, in order to disproveit, she adopted a different course of conduct, became gay and lively,and encouraged all sorts of diversions among her court ladies. She triedto make herself popular with her subjects too, by being more graciousthan before, and appearing oftener in public. This behavior was turnedagainst her by the king's council, t {371}who were told that the queenwas only gay because her husband was sad, and that she was conspiringfor his death and that of his cardinal. Thereupon they advised Henry toseparate himself from her entirely, and to remove the Princess Mary fromher guardianship. This piece of malice was a sting bitterer than death.
Katharine knew that Wolsey was her chief persecutor, and did nothesitate to charge him with all her troubles as well as with being anenemy to her nephew, Charles V.
That emperor was very much distressed when he heard of the turn affairshad taken, and declared that if the pope decided against his aunt hewould not complain, but if not, he would support her and her daughter asfar as possible.
In May, 1529, there was a solemn court held in the great hall of thepalace at Blackfriars, Wolsey and Campeggio presiding. Each of theprelates was seated in a large chair, covered with rich tapestry, near along table. On the right was a canopy with a massive chair for the king,and on the left a similar one for the queen. Henry did not appear atfirst, but Katharine entered the hall, attended by four bishops and atrain of court ladies, to say that she would only accept the decision ofthe pope, because the cardinals who were present were too prejudiced tobe just. She then left.
After several weeks of discussion the king and queen were both summonedto appear in court. When the crier called: "Henry, King of England, comeinto court," he answered distinctly, and standing up beneath his canopy,spoke of the virtues of his wife and of his unwillingness to part fromher, excepting to soothe the pangs of his conscience. Then Katharine wascalled. She was already present, seated in her chair, and merely roseto explain that the action of the court was illegal, stating reasonswhy such was the case. {372}Her name was called again. Then she rose asecond time, and walked around the table the whole length of the court,until she came to where the king sat. Kneeling down before him, shemade a most touching appeal, begging him to take compassion on her, astranger in his land, and let her have some justice. She also requestedhim to suspend the trial until she could hear from her family in Spainand get their advice.
After she had finished her long address to the king, she made a low bow,and with a dignified air slowly marched out of court. As she moved away,her name was called several times, whereupon the person on whose arm sheleaned said: "Madam, you are called back."
"I hear it well enough," she replied; "but on--on--go you on, for thisis no court wherein I can have justice."
Her appeal to the king had made such an impression on all present thathe made a long speech, lamenting "that his conscience should urgethe divorce of such a queen who had ever been a devoted wife, full ofgentleness and virtue." The members of his council knew well that hewas not speaking the truth, but they did not dare to tell him so. AsCardinal Wolsey was still a favorite, the king closed his harangue by anassurance that he was in no way to blame for the desired divorce.
A week later Katharine was summoned to court again, but refused to obey,and with her own hand wrote an appeal to the pope. The cardinals haddone all they could think of to get the queen to consent to a divorce,and being at a loss how to proceed, they took a vacation of threemonths. At the expiration of that term the two cardinals went toBridewell, and requested a private interview with Katharine. Shereceived them courteously, impressed upon them her forlorn situationin a foreign land, deprived of counsel, and told them that she wouldbe {373}grateful if they would advise her how to act. She then withdrewwith them to a private room, where they remained for nearly an hour inearnest conversation. She must have argued her case well, for both thecardinals were won over to her side, and would never say another wordagainst her. This was the only cause for offence that King Henry everhad against Wolsey, who ceased, from that moment, to be his favorite.
[Illustration: 0377]
When the court met again, the king was very angry to hear that thequestion of his divorce must be referred to the pope. He wantedit settled in his way and in England. Shortly after, Wolsey had aninterview with the king, which proved his last.
The king and queen passed Christmas together at Greenwich with theusual festivities, and seemed to be on very good terms, he treating thePrincess Mary very tenderly, and showing Katharine the respect due theQueen of England.
Henry had an object in this; he wanted his wife to withdraw her appealfrom Rome, and let the matter be decided {374}in England, but sherefused. Then he got angry, put a sudden stop to the court diversions,and retired to the palace at Whitehall that he had just taken fromWolsey.
Later, he sent a message to the queen entreating her to "quiet hisconscience." She replied: "God grant my husband a quiet conscience; butI mean to abide by no decision excepting that of Rome."
This answer put the king in a perfect fury. After the festival ofTrinity he accompanied the queen to Windsor, but left in a few days,and sent her word to be out of the castle before his return. "Go where Imay," was the reply of the forsaken queen, "I am his wife, and for him Iwill pray!" She immediately left Windsor Castle, and never again beheldher husband or child. She went to reside at Ampthill, whence she wroteher daughter letters full of most excellent advice, always praying herto submit to her father's will. Her reason for this was that she wishedthe child to keep in the king's good graces, knowing that he wouldsome time or other acknowledge her rights. Once, on hearing of Mary'sillness, Katharine wrote to Cromwell for permission to see her, but wascruelly refused.
Finding at last that the decision at Rome was likely to be againsthim, the king induced Dr. Cranmer, who had just been made Archbishopof Canterbury, to conclude the long agitated question of the divorce bygranting it. At the commencement of the following year he married AnneBoleyn, and there were insurrections raised in many parts of the kingdomon account of it.
Had Queen Katharine not been such a good woman she might have giventhe king a great deal of trouble by heading a party against him,particularly as the House of Commons had requested him to take her back.At the end of several months Cranmer succeeded in getting the divorce{375}settled; but the sorrow and anxiety that poor Katharine hadsuffered had broken down her health, so that when Lord Montjoy went toinform her that she was no longer Queen of England, but dowager Princessof Wales, he found her very ill in bed. She declared that she had beencrowned and anointed queen, and would be called by that title as longas she lived, and no bribes or threats would move her in the least. Sheforbade her servants to take an oath to serve her as Princess of Wales,and many of them were obliged to quit her service because they wouldnot disobey her. Those who remained were excused from taking the oath atall.
Katharine always judged her rival in the most charitable light, andseemed to think her an object of pity. Once when one of her women cursedAnne Boleyn, because she saw how troubled her mistress was, Katharinesaid: "Hold your peace! curse her not, but rather pray for her, for evennow is the time fast coming when you shall have reason to pity her andlament her case."
Katharine had removed to Buckden, where she passed her time in prayingand deeds of charity, or embroidering for the churches. After a whileshe regained her peace of mind, and made herself greatly beloved by thecountry people, who visited her frequently, and showed her the deepestrespect. Other messengers were sent to her from Henry, requesting herto call herself Prince Arthur's widow, and to resign the title of queen.This made her very angry, and she declared that she was the king's wife,not his subject, and would be called queen until she died. She was theonly person in the realm who dared to defy the king; she had lost hislove, but not his esteem. Anybody at court who was known to speak inKatharine's favor was either locked up in the Tower or executed, anda perfect reign of terror was the result. When she heard {376}how herfriends had suffered on her account her health grew worse, and as shewas anxious to live for the sake of her daughter she sent a request tothe king to appoint her a residence nearer London. He named FotheringayCastle, a place that was notoriously unhealthy. But Katharine absolutelyrefused to go there, and after a great deal of opposition on the part ofthe king's agents she was removed to Kimbolton Castle, deprived of manycomforts that her ill-health made necessary for her. One serious causeof distress to Katharine was the imprisonment of her two confessors,who, simply because they took sides with her, were subjected to the mostcruel torments.
[[A.D. 1536.]] By the end of the year the queen was on her death-bed.When she knew her end was approaching she sent an entreaty to Henry thatshe might be permitted to see her child and give her a blessing. It wasrefused. A few days before she expired Katharine called one of her maidsto her bedside and, dictated a farewell letter to the king, in which shepardons him for all the misery he has caused her, and prays that God mayalso pardon him. She commends their daughter Mary to his care, and begshim to be a good father to her. And in conclusion she requests marriageportions for her three maids, and a year's extra pay for all her otherservants lest they should be unprovided for. Henry shed tears on readingthe letter, and sent Eustachio, the Spanish ambassador, to attendKatharine's death-bed. He and Lady Willoughby, the friend andcountrywoman of the queen, who hastened to her at the last, were theonly persons present when she passed away. In her will she left a fewlegacies, but her income had been so cut down during the last few yearsof her existence that she had not much to dispose of. She mentions herdresses that Henry kept when she was so brutally turned away from hispalace, and begs that they be used for church {377}ornaments. She wasburied at Peterborough Abbey, and for several years a canopy coveredwith a black velvet cloth, on which was embroidered a large silver crossand the Spanish coat-of-arms, stood over the grave.
Henry had a solemn service at Greenwich on the day of Katharine'sburial, at which he appeared with his attendants in deep mourning, andcommanded all his court to do the same. Anne Boleyn dressed herself andall her ladies in yellow instead, and heartlessly laughed over the deathof the queen. "I am grieved," she said, "not because she is dead, butfor the vaunting of the good end she made." She had reason to speak so,for nothing was talked of but the Christian death-bed of Katharine, andmany books and papers were written in her praise.
A short time after her burial some of her friends ventured to suggest tothe king that a monument ought to be erected to her memory. He answered:"That he would have to her memory one of the goodliest monuments inChristendom." This was the beautiful abbey church of Peterborough,for when Henry VIII. caused the destruction of all the convents andmonasteries in England he spared that one because it contained QueenKatharine's remains. Through all her bitter trials no enemy wassuccessful in tarnishing Katharine of Arragon's good name, butShakspeare is the only writer who has properly appreciated her moralworth.
[Illustration: 0381]
{378}



CHAPTER XXIII. ANNE BOLEYN, SECOND QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1501-1536.)
|Anne Boleyn was one of the beauties of the court of Katharine ofArragon, and was particularly attractive to the king on account of herwit and her fondness for pageants and masquerades, in which she took aleading part. Henry performed at these entertainments, also; thus thesetwo were often thrown together, and the lady's vanity and ambition wereflattered by the attentions he paid her.
She was an Englishwoman by birth, though of French descent on herfather's side. Her mother died when she was only eleven years old, andshe was taken charge of by a French governess called Simonette. She wascarefully educated, and excelled in music and needlework. Besides, shewrote both French and English letters to her father when he was away,and that was an accomplishment very rare among ladies of the reign ofHenry VIII. {[A. D. 1514.]} It was probably on account of her superiorknowledge that she was selected to go with the young Princess Mary toFrance when she married Louis XII., and her knowledge of the languagemust have been of great service to the young girl, who could speak onlyEnglish. They had a very stormy voyage to Boulogne, and had to go ashorein little boats at the risk of their lives. It was rather trying to thePrincess Mary and her four maids of honor to have to appear in theirdrenched garments before all the French nobles who had assembled on thebeach to receive them.
{379}
[Illustration: 0383]
{381}But they soon had a chance of showing off their beauty toadvantage, for when within four miles of Abbeville they mounted whitehorses, and with thirty other ladies who joined the procession, rodeinto the town. Mary wore a superb embroidered robe, and her ladies'dresses were of crimson velvet, which must have been particularlybecoming to the warm, brunette complexion and sparkling black eyes ofAnne Boleyn.
When the King of France died, and Mary went back to England, Anne didnot accompany her, but entered the service of Queen Claude, wife ofFrancis I.
This queen was a most excellent woman, and exercised a wholesomeinfluence over her maids of honor. They went regularly with her to mass,attended her when she appeared in public, and spent part of every day inher society reading, embroidering, and weaving. The strict rules of thissober-minded queen were rather irksome to the lively English maid ofhonor, for she was fond of all sorts of games, music, and dancing, andis said to have invented many new figures and steps which she performedwith much grace and agility. Another of her gifts was a remarkablysweet voice, both in singing and speaking. While at the French courther costume was a cap of velvet, trimmed in points, a little gold bellhanging from each point; a vest of the same material with silverstars, a jacket of watered silk with large hanging sleeves that almostconcealed her hands, and a skirt to match. Her feet were encased in bluevelvet slippers, with a strap across the instep, fastened with a diamondstar. Her hair fell in ringlets about her shoulders. Of course shedressed in this manner only when she was very young; later, when shelived in England, her costumes were very different. She had one seriousdefect which, however, she managed to conceal with her long sleeves.It was a deformity of the little finger of the left hand which somechroniclers say was divided and formed two fingers.
[[A.D. 1522.]] {382}She was about twenty years old when she returned toEngland and attached herself to the household of Katharine.
The maids of honor dined at mess in those days like officers of the armyor navy of the present time, and were plentifully served with all thegood food the markets afforded, besides an ample supply of ale and wine.Each maid of honor was allowed a servant and a spaniel, and those whowere daughters of peers could have stabling for horses and carriagesbesides.
There was a young man at court named Lord Henry Percy, the eldest son ofthe Duke of Northumberland, whose duty it was to attend Cardinal Wolseyto the palace daily; but while that prelate held council with the king,Lord Henry would pass the time with the court ladies. The result ofthese visits was a love affair between him and the fair Anne Boleyn. Butthe king had made up his mind to marry the young maid of honor himselfas soon as he could get a divorce from his wife, consequently hecomplained to the cardinal, and told him that he must break off thematch at once, because he had planned a marriage for Anne with anotherperson. The cardinal sent for Percy and took him to task for thinkingto unite himself to anybody without first consulting his father and theking. The young man expressed his regret at having displeased the king,but declared that he could not give up his lady-love. Thereupon Wolseyswore that he should be forced to do so, adding: "I will send for yourfather out of the North, and he and we shall take this matter in hand;in the meantime I charge thee to go no more into her company to arousethe king's indignation." With these words he arose and went into his ownroom.
In answer to the king's summons the Earl of Northumberland did appearwith as little delay as possible. He was {383}an extremely proud, cold,narrow-minded man, who wanted his son to marry a woman at least hisequal in rank and wealth; therefore at the conclusion of his secretinterview with the cardinal he rated Percy soundly, and applied to himthe most abusive and insulting names he could think of. He finished hislong lecture by telling him that he did not mean to make him his heir,because he had other boys who, he trusted, would prove wiser men, and hewould choose one of them for his successor.
Percy was then banished from court, and forced to marry Mary Talbot, adaughter of the Earl of Shrewsbury, with whom he was very unhappy. Ifonly he had been strong enough to hold out in his love for Anne a littlewhile longer he might have been spared a great deal of misery, for hisfather died in less than three years after his forced marriage, and hebecame Earl of Northumberland.
To punish Anne for loving Percy, the king banished her from court andsent her home to her father's house. She laid the whole blame on Wolsey,and was so angry with him as to declare she would be revenged on him. Hecould never gain favor with her after that. She lived at Hever Castle,with her father and stepmother, and was very unhappy on account of thegreat disappointment she had suffered.
After a time the king made an unexpected visit at the castle, but Annepretended to be ill, and would not leave her room all the time he wasthere. But the tyrant was bound to have everything to suit himself, sohe began to draw her family to court by giving them important offices,and advanced her father to the peerage under the title of ViscountRochford. Still Anne did not return, and the king wrote her severalletters urging her to do so. She dared not show him how angry she wasbecause he had {384}broken off her engagement with Percy, but she wastreasuring up a store of vengeance against the cardinal, who had beenhis tool, that she hoped some day to visit upon his head. She had beenaway from court just four years when she returned, and Wolsey's enemieswere glad to be able to count on her influence to crush him.
A short time after he was sent on an embassy to France, and it wasduring his absence that Anne gained a great deal of influence over theking. Ambition had entered her head, and seeing that Henry admired her,she determined to share his throne as soon as his wife could be gotout of the way. He had asked her to marry him, and only awaited thesettlement of the divorce, which was a long and tedious affair.
Anne Boleyn was soon living in Suffolk House, which the king hadsecured for her, and there she had a regular court of her own, withher ladies-in-waiting, her train-bearer, and her chaplains, quiteindependent of the queen.
The first introduction of Tindal's translation of the Scriptureswas made while Anne was so powerful. Among her ladies was one calledMistress Gaynsford, who had a lover, also employed at Suffolk House,named George Zouch. One day the young lady was deeply interested in abook, from which she would not raise her eyes, even to speak to George,who tried several times to make her listen to him, At last he becamevery angry and snatched the book out of her hand. It proved to be thetranslation of Tindal, that had been privately presented by one of theReformers to Anne Boleyn. Now, this work had been proscribed by CardinalWolsey, who was not in favor of any reforms in religion, and kept secretfrom the king. Mistress Gaynsford knew this perfectly well, and was sofrightened at being discovered with it that she begged and implored herlover to return it to her, but merely to tease her,
{385}
[Illustration: 0389]
{387}he ran off with it. The next time he went to the King's chapel,with the other courtiers, he took it into his head to read the identicalbook he had taken from his ladylove, and became so absorbed in it thatthe service was concluded without his knowing it. The dean of the chapelwondered what George could be reading with so much interest, and askedto have a look at the volume. As soon as he saw what it was he carriedit to Cardinal Wolsey. Meantime, Anne had asked for it, and when sheheard into whose hands it had fallen, she said: "Well, it shall be thedearest book that ever dean or cardinal detained." Then she went to theking, and not only succeeded in persuading him to get the book back forher, but made him read it.
This beautiful favorite continued to hate Cardinal Wolsey more and more,and was determined that Henry should show him no favors if she couldhelp it. Her mind was constantly busy laying plans to keep them apart,and to put the cardinal in an unfavorable light, though she usedthe most flattering terms both in speaking and writing to him. Thisdeception she continued until he was won over to Queen Katharine'scause, when she declared her hostility openly, and she was a woman whowould stop at nothing that would gratify her thirst for revenge. She wasconstantly poisoning the king's mind against him, yet the old friendshipwould crop out from time to time, and when the cardinal was seized withthe pestilence Dr. Butts, the king's physician, was sent to attend him.
"Have you seen yonder man?" asked King Henry of the doctor. "Yes," wasthe reply; "and if you will have him dead, I warrant you that if hereceive not some comfort from you he will be dead within four days."
"God forbid!" cried the king, "I would not lose him for twenty thousandpounds. I pray you go to him, and do you care for him." {388}"Then mustyour grace send him some comfortable message," said Dr. Butts.
"Tell him that I am not offended with him in my heart for anything, andbid him be of good comfort," returned the king, handing the doctor aruby ring with his own image carved thereon, and requesting him to carryit to the patient. He desired Anne Boleyn to send some token of regardalso, and she handed the doctor a gold tablet that hung at her side,adding a loving message, of which she did not mean a word. Wolsey raisedhimself in his bed when the presents were shown to him, and thanked thedoctor joyfully for the comfort he had brought. At the end of four dayshe was well again. But he was too near the court for the comfort or easeof his enemies, so {389}the Duke of Norfolk, Anne's uncle, sent him wordthrough Cromwell "that if he did not instantly depart for the north hewould tear him with his teeth." He did go as far as Cawood, near York,but Anne never ceased her persecutions until she had him arrestedfor high treason, and employed her early lover Percy to carry him thewarrant. No doubt this was done to remind the cardinal of her firstcause of hatred towards him. He was in prison only twenty-five days whenhe obtained his release.
At this time the Duke of Norfolk, Anne's uncle, was president ofthe cabinet, while the Duke of Suffolk, her father, Sir Thomas More,Fitzwilliam, and Stephen Gardiner conducted the affairs of the realm,but she was the ruling power that influenced them all. She kept up hercourt with great splendor, and spent money most extravagantly. Stillshe could not marry the king until Cromwell's bold stroke that separatedEngland from the power of the pope enabled her to do so.
Then poor Queen Katharine was driven away from Windsor Castle, and theking created Anne Boleyn Marchioness of Pembroke, with a pension of1000 per annum. This ceremony was performed with great pomp. The kingwas seated on his throne in the presence chamber at Windsor, surroundedby his councillors and a number of peers. Anne Boleyn entered, followedby a long train of courtiers, and lords and ladies of the nobility. LadyMary carried on her left arm a robe of state made of crimson velvet,lined and trimmed with ermine, and in her right hand a coronet of gold.Anne wore a jacket of red velvet with short sleeves, her hair hangingloosely about her shoulders. She courtesied three times before reachingthe throne, then kneeled down at the king's feet. After that the charterwas read aloud, and the king himself placed the mantle on the shouldersof the new marchioness and {390}the coronet on her head. She thankedthe sovereign humbly, and withdrew amidst the sounding of trumpets. AnneBoleyn's tastes were much more in harmony with those of the king thanKatharine's had been, for she was fond of hunting and all games of cardsand dice. She was a lucky gamester as a rule, but Henry's losses wereperfectly enormous, and formed quite an important item in his privateexpenses.
[Illustration: 0394]
The exact time or place of the marriage between Henry VIII. and AnneBoleyn is not known. It was kept secret because it was so unpopular inEngland, but as soon as the ceremony was performed Viscount Rochfordwas sent to France to announce the event to Francis I. When the secretleaked out Cranmer publicly announced King Henry's divorce from QueenKatharine and his marriage to Anne Boleyn, who then began to appear instate.
[[A.D. 1534.]] Early in May, 1534, the king notified the {391}lord-mayorthat the coronation of Queen Anne would take place at Westminster onWhitsunday, and requested him to conduct her grace from Greenwich to theTower by water a few days before. On the 19th of May the river Thamespresented a most festive appearance. In obedience to the royal order abarge had been decorated and fitted up for Anne Boleyn's use in amost gorgeous style. The lord-mayor embarked in this, and fifty othersfollowed in his train, one carrying a band of music, while the otherswere filled with all the great men of London dressed in scarlet, many ofthem wearing heavy gold chains about their necks, and others their orderof knighthood. Hundreds of little row-boats were moving about onthe water besides, for every one who could procure any sort of a tugaccompanied the chief of the city to Greenwich, or rested on their oarsin the best positions they could find to get a sight of the new queen.On the deck of the royal barge was a tremendous dragon, surrounded byother monsters that were from time to time made to vomit forth fire byconcealed artillerymen to the delight and terror of the different boatsthat floated near. On one barge sat a score of young ladies amidstfestoons of red and white roses arranged on branches that formed acanopy, at the summit of which sat a white falcon crowned, holding asceptre in one foot, and Anne Boleyn's motto "Me and Mine" hanging onhis breast. These young ladies sang the queen's praises in a chorusas they glided over the water. All the barges were fitted up withgay flags, flowers and banners. Having reached Greenwich Palace theyanchored, the band performing different pieces of music, and the chorusof ladies singing until three o'clock, when Anne appeared superblydressed and attended by her ladies. She entered her barge, and the gayflotilla moved down the river again amidst music, cheering, and thesounding of trumpets until {392}it reached the Tower, when a marvellouspeal of guns was shot off. The lord-chamberlain received the queen andconducted her to the king, who kissed her tenderly. The whole eveningthe barges hovered near the Tower, and from them was a display ofbrilliant fireworks, while crowds of people, stood to witness them onthe neighboring wharves and bridges.
How different were the feelings of the fair Anne within that self-samefortress only two short years later. On the eve of the coronation,according to the usual custom, the queen was conducted through the cityof London in grand procession. All the streets through which she passedwere decorated. The lord-mayor received her at the Tower gate. He wore acrimson velvet gown with a gold collar. First in the procession came theFrench ambassador with his retinue in blue and yellow velvet, then thejudges, next the newly-made Knights of the Bath in violet gowns withhoods lined and trimmed with white fur. After them came the abbots,then the nobility and the bishops. The Archbishop of York rode with theambassador of Venice, and Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, with theFrench ambassador. Then followed two esquires wearing the coronet ofNormandy and Aquitaine, the lord-mayor with his mace and garter, severalmore knights and nobles. Close behind them was an open litter drawn bytwo white horses led by footmen dressed in white damask. In this littersat the bright object of the parade in a jacket of silver tissue, mantleof the same lined with ermine, her dark hair falling in pretty contrastover her shoulders. A band of precious stones encircled her head, andabove her was held by four knights on foot a canopy covered with clothof cold.
The master of the horse led the queen's own riding animal, bearinga rich side-saddle with trappings of cloth of {393}gold that reachednearly to the ground. Seven ladies on horseback, dressed in crimsonvelvet, followed; then came two chariots, in one of which sat the oldDuchess of Norfolk with the Marchioness of Dorset, and in the other fourladies of the bed-chamber. Fourteen more ladies with their waiting maidscame next, and the guard brought up the rear.
[Illustration: 8387]
At Fenchurch street was a pageant of children dressed up to representdifferent kinds of merchants, who welcomed the queen both in French andEnglish, the whole procession halting for that purpose. At a corner ofanother street was an enormous fountain that poured forth fine Rhenishwine all day long, of which anybody could drink just as much as hechose. One of the pageants was a white falcon similar to the one onthe barge, with this difference: it sat uncrowned amidst red andwhite roses, and when the queen came opposite it, an angel flew down,accompanied by soft music, and placed a crown of gold on its head. Afountain of red wine flowed at another corner, and the three Graces stoodabove it on a throne, before which sat a poet who recited verses andpresented the queen with appropriate gifts from Faith, Hope and Charity.
The city recorder handed the queen a purse containing a thousand marksin gold, which she graciously received with thanks. At Cheapside wasa rich pageant from which proceeded music and singing, while Pallas,Venus, and Juno held up their apples of gold containing wisdom, riches,and felicity, which they presented to the queen. Over the gate of St.Paul's was a banner with this inscription in Latin: "Proceed, QueenAnne, and reign prosperously."
On a scaffold near by were two hundred children, all beautifullydressed, who recited verses, and so after passing several other pageantsand fountains of red and white wine, the queen arrived at Westminster.The palace was richly decorated within and without. She rode to the verymiddle of the hall, where she was assisted to alight from her litter,and led up the high dais, where she took her seat under the canopy ofstate. At her left side stood a cabinet with ten shelves filled withrich and costly cups and goblets of gold. After partaking of wine, cake,and sugar-plums, which were handed to her ladies also, she withdrewto change her dress, and probably to rest, for all the parading andsightseeing of the past several hours must have been rather fatiguing.
The next day was the one that Anne had looked forward to for many years;the one that was to place her on the throne of England. It was the1st of July, and at a little after eight o'clock on that bright summermorning she stood under her canopy of state in a purple velvet mantlelined with ermine, a band of rubies encircling her brow. There was theusual procession for such occasions, and the queen was conducted tothe high altar in Westminster Abbey, where she prostrated herself whileCranmer recited part of the service. Then he anointed her on the headand breast, placed the crown on her head, and handed her the sceptre,while the choir sang the Te Deum. She returned to her seat between thehigh altar and the choir, where she remained to the end of the mass,when her father led her to her private room off Westminster Hall towait till the banquet was prepared. Then all the great earls stoodin {395}gorgeous attire prepared to wait on the queen in differentcapacities, the Duke of Suffolk as high steward, assisted by LordWilliam Howard, the Earl of Sussex as carver, the Earl of Arundel aschief butler, and so on.
When all was ready, the queen entered the hall with her canopy borneover her, washed her hands in the perfumed water poured over them by SirThomas Wyatt, and took her seat at the table, the Countesses ofOxford and Worcester standing on either side of her chair, while twogentlewomen sat at her feet. All the tables in the hall were beautifullylaid and tastefully decorated, and there was music all through the meal.The king took no part in this ceremony at all, but remained shut upin the cloister of St. Stephen's a part of the abbey, whence he couldoverlook all the proceedings without being seen himself. During thedinner the Duke of Suffolk and Lord William Howard rode up and down thehall, laughing and chatting with the lords and ladies, and when it wasover commanded them to remain in their places until the queen had washedher hands. She arose and stood in the middle of the hall, while the Earlof Sussex brought her some sweetmeats. Then the lord-mayor brought her agolden cup filled with wine. After she had drunk, she presented him thecup and walked towards the door of her room under her canopy. Beforedisappearing, she turned and presented the gold bells, canopy, and allits decorations to the barons who had carried it.
On the following day there were jousts before the king and queen in thetilt-yard. But the pope did not approve of this second marriage, and soexpelled the royal couple from the church; and Henry's cousin CardinalPole, wrote him letters of reproach, calling Anne "Jezebel,"
"Sorceress," and many other horrible names. Nevertheless, the kingtreated her with all the dignity of her station, and had {396}herinitial A joined with his own on all the gold and silver coins that werestruck after their marriage. Henry VIII. was the first and last monarchof England who ever paid his wife that compliment.
Sir Thomas More was one of Anne's special enemies, because he remainedtrue in his friendship for Queen Katherine to the day of her death. Whenhis daughter visited him in the Tower he asked her "how Queen Anne did?"
"Never better," she replied: "there is nothing else at court but dancingand sporting."
"Never better!" said he, "alas! Meg, alas! it pitieth me to think intowhat misery, poor soul, she will shortly come. These dances of hers willprove such dances that she will spurn our heads off like foot-balls,but it will not be long ere her head will dance the like dance." Hertragical end proves the truth of that poet's prophetic words.
When that great and good man was executed, the announcement of it wasmade to Henry while he happened to be playing cards with Anne. "Thou artthe cause of this man's death," he cried, looking at her angrily, andrising from the table. He then shut himself up in his room, deeplygrieved.
[[A.D. 1533.]] In 1533 Anne had a little daughter born, who afterwardsbecame the renowned Queen Elizabeth. The opposition her marriage had metwith from Rome caused Anne to side with the Reformation party,though she always continued a Catholic at heart, and observed all theceremonies of that church. It is probable that she took no part in thecruelty that Henry exercised over the pious reformers, but it is certainthat she made no effort to prevent it; for had she done so, she wasstill powerful enough to have succeeded. She had enjoyed one triumph.
Probably this change was due to the influence of the reformer, HughLatimer, whom she rescued from prison, where he had been sent by thebishop of London; for it was after he preached to her and pointed outher duty that she so generously distributed alms and even paid for theeducation of promising lads who were likely to devote themselves to thechurch. She must often have felt that {397}after another, but when shereached the very summit of her greatness, no doubt she found that herpath had been more thickly strewn with thorns than roses, and that inreading the Scriptures she felt the force of the text, which says: "Whatis a man profited if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?"She became grave and serious, and spent more time at needlework with herladies, whom she assisted in making clothing which she distributed amongthe poor.
[Illustration: 0401]
{398}her position on the throne of England was not very secure, for asher capricious husband had behaved towards his first wife might he notbehave towards her also?
When the news of Katharine's death was brought to her she exclaimed:"Now I am indeed a queen!" But it was not long before she was sufferingall the bitter pangs that the good queen over whose death she rejoicedhad endured.
Henry had grown tired of her, and was carrying on a flirtation with thebeautiful Jane Seymour, one of her attendants. And so, under one pretextor another, her friends were either beheaded or locked up in the Tower.
At last her turn came, and just as she had finished her dinner, on the2d of May, the Duke of Norfolk, with Cromwell and other lords of thecouncil entered, while Sir William Kingston, lieutenant of the Tower,stood in the doorway.
Anne asked "why they had come?" They replied: "That they came by theking's command to conduct her to the Tower, there to abide during hishighness' pleasure."
"If it be his majesty's pleasure I am ready to obey," she said, goingwith them to her barge without waiting to make the least change in hergarments. Arriving at the Tower, she was placed in the apartment shehad occupied on the night before her coronation. Her attendants were twoenemies, who were particularly disagreeable to her--Lady Boleyn and Mrs.Cosyns. These two women never left her, night or day, for they slept ona pallet at the foot of her bed, and reported every word she uttered.They made all sorts of impertinent remarks to her, and kept constantlyannoying her with questions by which they hoped to prove somethingagainst her.
The poor queen was so affected by her close imprisonment that at timesshe seemed to have lost her reason. She wrote a touching letter to theking, appealing to his {399}mercy, but he took not the slightest noticeof it, and just one week after she was sent to prison a charge of hightreason was made by the grand jury of Westminster against Anne Boleyn,her brother, and four of her best friends.
The friends were condemned to death, as almost everybody was inHenry VIII.'s reign who was brought to trial for high treason, thoughsometimes they were not even tried at all.
Twenty-six "lords' triers," from the body of nobles in England wereselected to try Lord Rochford, Anne's brother; and, although he defendedhimself with great spirit and eloquence, and many of the judges sidedwith him, he was found guilty.
After his removal, Anne, Queen of England, was called into court by anusher.
She appeared immediately, and took her stand "with the true dignity of aqueen, courtesying to her judges without any sign of fear."
The charges were read, and she pleaded "Not guilty," but the trial wascontinued for a long time, and ended by a verdict of guilty. It washer uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, who presided at this trial, and hepronounced her sentence. She was condemned to be burnt or beheaded,at the king's pleasure. Anne Boleyn heard this dreadful doom withoutchanging color, but when her stern kinsman had ended, she clasped herhands and raising her eyes to Heaven exclaimed: "O Father! O Creator!Thou who art the way the life, and the truth, knowest whether I havedeserved this death."
She then turned to her judges and proclaimed her innocence of everycharge made against her, closing her remarks with: "Think not I say thisin the hope of prolonging my life. God has taught me how to die, andhe will strengthen my faith. As for my brother and those others who areunjustly {400}condemned, I would willingly suffer many deaths to deliverthem; but since I see it so pleases the king I shall willingly accompanythem to death, with this assurance, that I shall lead an endless lifewith them in peace." With a composed air, she rose, made a partingsalutation to her judges, and left the court.
The 19th of May was the day appointed for her execution, and theinterval was passed in prayer and confession, receiving the sacramentsof the church, and other preparations for death.
It was the king's pleasure that she should be beheaded in the groundsof the Tower, and that no strangers should be admitted. A headsmanfrom Calais was brought over to do the horrible deed, because he wasconsidered particularly expert. Anne Boleyn's fate had had no precedentin English history, for even in the Norman reigns of terror woman'slife had been held sacred, and the most merciless of the Plantagenetsovereigns had been too manly to butcher ladies. But the age of chivalrywas over, and Henry VIII. was the first sovereign who sent queens andprincesses to the block, without justice or mercy.
The unfortunate queen was duly informed of her fate; her mournfulexperience had shown her the vanity and vexation of flattery. Beauty,wealth, genius, pleasure, power, royalty, had all been hers, and whitherhad they led her?
She had not condescended to implore the mercy of the king, for she knewhis pitiless nature too well even to attempt to touch his feelings. Shepassed the last night in prayer, and when morning came, and she heardthat her execution was to be a few hours later than she expected, shesaid to Mr. Kingston: "I hear I shall not die afore noon, and I amvery sorry, for I thought to be dead by this time, and past my pain,"{401}Mr. Kingston told her that the pain would be little and very short.
"I have heard say," she replied, "that the executioner is very good,and I have a little neck," and she spanned it with her hands, laughingheartily as she did so.
[[A.D. 1536.]] Her last message to the king was: "Commend me to hismajesty, and tell him he hath been ever constant in his career ofadvancing me; from a private gentlewoman he made me a marchioness, froma marchioness a queen, and now he hath left no higher degree of honor hegives my innocency the crown of martyrdom."
A few minutes before twelve o'clock the massive doors of the Tower werethrown open, and the royal victim appeared in a robe of black damaskwith a deep white cape falling around her shoulders.
She looked very beautiful when she ascended the scaffold, with a calmand dignified air, and turning to Kingston she requested him not tohasten the signal of her death until she had spoken what she desired tosay.
Then she began: "Good Christian people, I am come hither to die by thelaw, therefore I will speak nothing against it. I am come hither toaccuse no man, but only to die, and to yield myself humbly unto the willof my lord the king. I pray God to save the king, and send him long toreign over you, for a gentler or more merciful prince there never was.If any person will meddle with my cause, I require them to judge thebest. Thus I take my leave of the world and of you, and I heartilydesire that you all will pray for me." She then removed her hat andcollar, as well as the close cap from her head, and handed them to herladies, who were weeping so bitterly that they could not aid her.Then turning to them she said: "And ye, my damsels, who ever showedyourselves so diligent in my service, and who are now to be present atmy last hour {402}and mortal agony, as in good fortune ye were faithfulto me, so even in this my miserable death ye do not forsake me. And asI cannot reward you for your true service to me, I pray you take comfortfor my loss. Forget me not, and be always faithful to the king's grace,and to her whom with happier fortune, ye may have as your queen andmistress. Esteem your honor far above your life, and in prayers forgetnot to pray for my soul."
Mary Wyatt, the sister of Sir Thomas Wyatt, the poet, who was one ofAnne's devoted friends, attended her on the scaffold, and received herlast gift, which was a little book of devotions bound in black enameland gilt. She then whispered a few words to this lady, and kneelingdown, placed her head upon the block. Time was allowed the poorunfortunate queen to say; "O Lord God, have pity on my soul," when thesword fell. With one stroke, the head of Anne Boleyn was severed fromher body, and rolled in the dust.
There is a black marble monument in the ancient church ofHorndon-on-the-Hill, in Essex, pointed out as the burial place of AnneBoleyn, but as it bears no name, no notice or inscription of any kind,there is no proof that her body lies there.
A great epic poet has beautifully said:--
               "Tradition! oh, tradition! thou of the seraph tongue;
               The ark that links two ages, the ancient and the young."
{403}



CHAPTER XXIV. JANE SEYMOUR, THIRD QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1536-1537.)
|Jane Seymour has always been pronounced the most beautiful of all thewives of Henry VIII. But she has also been presented to the world as ameritorious, discreet, young woman. We cannot consider her so when weremember that within twenty-four hours after Anne Boleyn's head was cutoff she became the king's wife. For it must have been while actingas maid of honor for that unhappy lady that she not only received theattentions of her fickle, heartless husband, but even made all thenecessary arrangements for her marriage with him. We shudder at thethought of the preparations that must have been going forward forthe wedding-feast at the palace, while the Tower was the scene ofheart-rending agony to the queen, who was about to sacrifice her lifefor the gratification of a tyrant.
The giddiness of youth cannot be pleaded as apology for Jane Seymour'sindecency, for she was no child when she permitted herself to be courtedby the royal Bluebeard, and must have been entirely conscious of theenormity of her actions.
Perhaps her early education was at fault, but of that little is knownexcepting that it was acquired in France. She was maid of honor to MaryTudor, queen of Louis XII., and went to England after her dismissalfrom the French court. Anne Boleyn occupied a similar position at the{404}same time, therefore the two maids of honor probably knew eachother intimately.
One day, after Anne Boleyn had ascended the throne, she observeda locket that hung from a pretty gold chain about the neck of JaneSeymour, and expressed a desire to see it closer. The maid of honorblushed, faltered, and drew back, whereupon the queen snatched thelocket from her, opened it, and beheld the likeness of the king, herhusband.
From that moment Anne Boleyn knew that her fate was sealed; she wasindignant, but that availed her nothing. She found herself supplantedby a rival as she had supplanted her predecessor. Perhaps her punishmentwas deserved, but it does not justify the conduct of the king or his newlady-love.
[[A.D. 1536.]] When the axe made Henry VIII. a widower, Jane Seymour wasat Wolf Hall, in Wiltshire, and her royal lover at Richmond Park. On themorning of the 19th of May his majesty stood under a spreading oak, withhis huntsmen and hounds prepared for the chaise, awaiting the signal gunfrom the Tower to announce that he was free. At last the welcome soundreached his ear. "Ha, ha!" he cried, "the deed is done! uncouple thehounds and away." This was all the regret he expressed for the death ofthe woman he had pretended to love so well.
His widowhood lasted just one night, for the next morning he was at WolfHall, where he was united to the beautiful Jane Seymour. The ceremonywas performed in the parish church, and was succeeded by a feast atwhich several members of the king's privy council were present.
Then the royal couple proceeded to Winchester, and from there to London.A grand reception was held on the 29th of May, when Jane was presentedas queen.
When parliament met, a few days later, the lord-chan-
{405}
[Illustration: 0409]
cellor {407}made a lengthy speech setting forth the king's virtues,trying to justify his vagaries in the matrimonial line by a great dealof tedious, false reasoning, and winding up with the information thatAnne Boleyn's daughter was not heir to the throne of England. Part ofthis speech was devoted to setting forth the noble sacrifices made byHenry VIII. for the benefit of his people.
The speaker chosen by the House of Commons went further, and loadedthe king with the most fulsome compliments, comparing him to Samson,Solomon, and Absalom combined. Thus was Henry VIII. encouraged in hiswickedness, until, as Cardinal Wolsey wisely said: "he actually forgotthat there was both heaven and hell."
The Princess Mary was on good terms with her stepmother, who effecteda reconciliation between her and the king; but the conditions were socruel, that there was not much to be grateful for. Perhaps Jane wasnot responsible for them, and as we have so little that is favorableto relate of this queen, we will give her the benefit of the doubt. Shemade no enemies, because she avoided expressing any decided opinions,and preserved as much as possible a placid silence, and permittedherself to be governed, in all things, by her husband. If regard for herhead prompted such behavior, at least she was wise.
The winter of 1537 was a remarkably cold one, and the royal couple withtheir entire court crossed the frozen Thames on horseback, so thick andsolid was the ice.
Henry's two other queens had been crowned, so he thought the samehonor ought to be conferred on the third, but the continuance of thepestilence caused that ceremony to be postponed so long that deathprevented it altogether, for Jane Seymour lived only eighteen monthsafter her marriage. Meanwhile, she was living at Hampton Court, whereher little son was born, who afterwards became Edward VI.
vet cloth. On top of this pall was a wax figure resembling the deadqueen dressed in regal robes with a crown, sceptre, and jewels.
On the 12th of November the car was drawn by six horses to St. George'sChapel, where the corpse was interred.
Henry VIII. wrote a letter to Francis I. rejoicing over the birth ofhis son and expressing considerable regret at the death of his wife. Hereally did put on mourning attire, and appeared depressed in spirits forseveral weeks. This is all that could be expected of so worldly and gaya king.
[[A.D. 1537.]] This prince was baptized at midnight, and both hissisters, Mary and Elizabeth, took part in the ceremony, which wassucceeded by such a blowing of trumpets as must have been very trying,indeed, to the nerves of a young infant.
[Illustration: 0412]
The next day Jane Seymour died. Her body was embalmed and laid on a carof state covered with a rich velvet.
{409}



CHAPTER XXV. ANNE OF CLEVES, FOURTH QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1516-1577.)
|Anne of Cleves was a most unfortunate, ill-treated princess, but shepossessed so many virtues that she surely deserved a better fate thanto become the wife of a king so devoid of the feelings of a gentleman asHenry' VIII.
After the death of his third queen, this capricious monarch did not findit so easy to get another as he probably expected it would be. Certainlyit must have been a woman of rare courage who would willingly subjectherself to such a yoke, knowing the experience of his other victims.
Jane Seymour had not been dead more than a month when he made a requestof Francis I. that he might be permitted to choose a lady from the royalblood of France for his queen. That monarch replied, "that there wasnot a damsel of any degree in his own dominions who should not be at hisdisposal."
Henry was quite flattered at this compliment, and thought it would onlybe necessary for him to put out his hand to secure any woman he mightcondescend to favor, so he requested Francis just to bring all thefairest ladies of his court to Calais for him to take his choice.The gallantry of the French king was shocked at such an idea, and hereplied, "that it was impossible to bring ladies of noble blood tomarket as horses are trotted out at a fair."
Then Henry wanted to marry James V.'s lady-love, whom he had seen andadmired, not paying the slightest attention to the fact that she wasalready engaged. When he found it impossible to get her, he was ready toconsider the proposition of his ambassador with regard to her sister orMademoiselle Vendme.
"Let them be brought to Calais," he said, "and I will take a look atthem."
"That would be impossible," was the reply; "but your majesty could sendsomebody to Paris to see them."
"Good gracious! how can I depend upon any one but myself?" asked Henry."I must see them, and hear them sing; and what is more, I must see howthey look while they are singing," he added.
By the end of the year he found that there was no hope for him inFrance, so he put on a most melancholy air, and pretended to bedreadfully grieved at the death of his pretty Jane.
This state of mind lasted for about two years; then Cromwell spoke insuch flattering terms of the princesses of the house of Cleves thatHenry began to think he had played the _rle_ of forlorn widower longenough.
Cromwell had only seen Sybilla, the eldest daughter of the Duke ofCleves. She was married to the Duke of Saxony, and was famed forher talents, virtues, charming manners, and extreme beauty. Butunfortunately for Henry, Anne, the second daughter, was as unlikeher sister as possible, and had no accomplishments whatever, with theexception of needlework.
Holbein, the celebrated Dutch artist, was required to paint theportraits of both Anne and her younger sister, Amelia, for Henry'sinspection, and Christopher Mount was sent to negotiate the treaty ofmarriage. He wrote a letter to Cromwell filled with Anne's praises andsaid, "she as far excelleth the Dutchess of Saxony as the golden sunexcelleth the silver moon." {411}The Duke of Saxony was very muchopposed to a union of his sister-in-law with a man of Henry VIII.'scharacter, but he was the champion of the Reformation, and ChristopherMount assured him "that the cause of Protestantism in Europe would begreatly advanced by the influence of a Lutheran Queen of England, forHenry was easily managed through his wives."
The Duke of Cleves died in 1559, but his son, who succeeded him, favoredAnne's marriage with King Henry, and so did their mother, both beingstrong allies of the Protestant cause, and feeling that even thoughit might be a sacrifice, it ought to be made for the sake of theirreligion.
One of Henry's commissioners wrote him that Anne "occupieth much ofher time with her needle. She can read and write her own language, butFrench and Latin or other language she knoweth not; nor yet can sing orplay on any instrument, for they take it here in Germany for a rebukeand an occasion of lightness that great ladies should be learned, orhave any knowledge of music." He also speaks of her gentle and amiabletemper, but above all he praises her sobriety, which is quite amusing.
Ever since the death of Jane Seymour the Catholics and Protestants ofEngland had vied with each other as to which should be next representedin the queen. It was the magic brush of Hans Holbein that decided thequestion, and Cromwell won a triumph over Gardiner, Norfolk, and hisother rivals, though it brought him ruin at last.
At length all matters of state policy and ceremony were arranged, andthe young princess bade farewell to her mother, brother, and sisters, bywhom she was tenderly beloved.
The first week in October, 1539, she left her native city, Dusseldorf onthe Rhine, attended by a splendid escort. On her arrival at Antwerp shewas received by the English {412}merchants there, who gave her agrand torchlight procession by daylight. Next day she proceeded on herjourney, and arrived at Calais December 11.
About a mile outside of the town she was met by a regiment of armedmen, with the king's archers, all in gay attire, besides the Earl ofSouthampton, Lord William Howard, and many other lords and gentlemen.Gregory Cromwell, with twenty-four others wore coats of satin damaskand velvet, with gold chains of great value, and two hundred yeoman whofollowed them were dressed in the king's colors, red and blue cloth.
The Earl of Southampton welcomed the royal bride and conducted her intoCalais, where such a peal of guns was shot from the ships on her arrivalthat all her retinue were astonished. Then firing began all along thecoast, and was continued by the vessels until there were one hundred andfifty rounds, and so much smoke that the people in Anne's train couldscarcely see each other.
The following day she was presented by the mayor with a hundred goldsovereigns, and for about three weeks after her arrival there were allsorts of pastimes and festivities. Meanwhile Henry impatiently awaitedhis long-expected bride, and busied himself with the execution of fourworthy abbots.
The wind did not favor her progress until the 27th, when she embarked,attended by a fleet of fifty ships, and arrived at Deal the same day.The princess was received by a great company of ladies and gentlemen,and conducted to Dover Castle, where she remained until the next Monday,when, in a dreadful storm, she set out for Canterbury. Several daysof travel brought the royal bride to Rochester, and New Year's Day wasspent at the bishop's palace in that town.
The king was so impatient to see her, that, in company {423}with eightof his gentlemen-in-waiting, he rode to Rochester to steal a look athis German bride, who, no doubt he thought, would rival the bright-eyedBoleyn and the fair Seymour.
On his arrival he sent a messenger to inform Anne "that he had broughther a New Year's gift, if she would please to receive it."
He followed his messenger into the room where she sat, but a glance wassufficient to show him that he had been deceived. She was by no means apretty woman, and Henry regarded himself as an injured person in havingto marry her. Perhaps she was not more charmed with his appearance ormanners, but she sank upon her knees at his approach and did her bestto receive him lovingly. He raised her gently, and kissed her, but therecould not have been much conversation between them so long as they hadto employ an interpreter. Besides her language was so displeasing to hismusical ear that he did not want to hear more of it than he could help,though he knew before she came that she could speak no English. Themoment he left her presence he sent for the lords who had brought herover and made his complaints.
The New Year's gift that he had provided for Anne was a muff and tippetof rich sable, but when he found she was not handsome he would not honorher by presenting it with his own hands, but sent it on the followingmorning by a messenger.
He returned to Greenwich in a melancholy frame of mind, and abusedCromwell for having provided him with a wife whom, with his usualbrutality, he called a "great Flanders mare." Cromwell tried to putthe blame on the Earl of Southampton, and said: "That when he found theprincess so different from the pictures, and the reports that had beenmade of her, he ought to have stopped her {414}at Calais till he hadgiven the king notice that she was not so handsome as she had beenrepresented." The admiral replied bluntly "that he was not invested withany such authority, his commission was to bring her to England, and hehad obeyed orders." The king interrupted them by ordering them to findsome means to get him out of his engagement. There was a great deal ofdiscussion about the matter, but no objection to the marriage couldbe invented that would be at all satisfactory to Anne's relations inGermany, so Cromwell assured the king that as a matter of policy he mustdo nothing to gain the ill-will of her friends.
"Is there no remedy but that I must needs put my neck into this yoke?"exclaimed Henry, passionately.
After these gracious words, which it is to be hoped did not reach theears of the insulted lady who was waiting his orders at Dartford, hecommanded the most splendid preparations to be made for his marriage. Onthe 3d of January a rich tent, covered with cloth of gold, was pitchedat the foot of Shooter's Hill for the royal bride, and other tentsaround for her ladies. Twelve hundred gentlemen were ranged in doublefile from the park gates to the heath awaiting the arrival of the kingwith his bride. About twelve o'clock her grace came down from Shooter'sHill, accompanied by a hundred of her own nation, the Dukes of Norfolkand Suffolk, the Archbishop of Canterbury, with other bishops, lords andknights who had come from France, and went towards the tents, whereDr. Kaye, her almoner, presented all the officers and servants of herhousehold, and addressed to her an eloquent Latin oration, of which shedid not understand a word. It was answered by her brother's secretary,who acted as interpreter. Then Anne stepped out of her chariot, and wassaluted and welcomed by sixty-five ladies, whom she thanked and kissed,after {415}which all entered the tents to warm themselves, for theweather was exceedingly cold and disagreeable. When the king heard thathis bride had arrived at her tent he set out through the park to meether, accompanied by the officers of his council and his gentlemen inwaiting, all richly attired in velvet coats embroidered in gold, andmounted on fine large horses. The Marquis of Dorset rode alone, attiredin purple velvet and bearing the king's sword of state. Some distancebehind him came Henry VIII., mounted on a splendid white courser withtrappings of cloth of gold embroidered with pearls. All the buckles,bit, and pendants were of solid gold. The king wore an embroideredpurple velvet coat, the sleeves and breast of which were slashed,showing cloth of gold beneath, and fastened together with large buttonsof diamonds, rubies, and oriental pearls. His sword and girdle werestudded with costly emeralds, and his cap was so covered with jewelsthat it was not possible to fix a value on it. Around his neck was adeep collar thickly studded with rubies and pearls.
When the bride was informed of Henry's approach she walked out ofher tent, mounted a white horse, and, surrounded by her footmen, rodeforward to meet him. Her dress was made of rich cloth of gold, cut roundin Dutch fashion without a train. On her head she wore a close cap,above which was a circular bonnet ornamented with oriental pearls.Across her brow was a coronet of black velvet, and around her neck aband of superb diamonds. Henry saluted her in the most courteous manner,took off his hat and embraced her as though he really cared for her,while she, not forgetting her duty, and perhaps the instructions she hadreceived, thanked him sweetly and praised the arrangements he had madefor her reception. No doubt he was pleased with all the flatteringremarks she {416}felt obliged to make to him. Then he put her on hisright side and they rode along together, he acting a deceitful part intrying to appear pleased, and she filled with indignation at the way hehad scorned her.
When the grand cavalcade that followed and preceded the royal pairarrived at Greenwich Castle all the men alighted from their horsesexcepting the king, who rode to the inner court with his bride. When thequeen had alighted from her horse Henry tenderly embraced her, and badeher "welcome to her own," then conducted her through the hall that hadbeen prepared for her reception. There he left her and went to hisroom, where he had an interview with Cromwell, to whom he made bittercomplaints about the appearance of his unlucky bride.
Cromwell said he was sorry his grace was not better satisfied, whereuponHenry bade him call his council together to see whether they could nothit upon some plan for getting him out of this marriage. The council metthat very afternoon, but failed to aid the king out of his dilemma,and this put him in such a bad humor that he would not say what he haddetermined to do until the next Monday morning; then he ordered themarriage ceremony to be performed next day, without even consulting thebride..
He wore a gown of cloth of gold, with raised silver flowers all over it.His coat was crimson satin embroidered and slashed, the points fastenedwith large diamonds, and a rich collar about his neck.
He entered the presence-chamber, and calling Cromwell to him, said, "Mylord, if it were not to satisfy the world and my realm, I would not dowhat I must do this day for any earthly thing." Then one of the officersof the household informed him that the queen was ready. He advancedtowards her chamber door, but had to wait {417}several minutes beforeshe appeared, which made him very angry. Who can blame the poor womanfor her tardiness? she would have been excusable if she had refused tocome at all. At last Henry sent one of his lords to bring her. She wasdressed in a robe of cloth of gold, thickly embroidered in large flowersof oriental pearls. The skirt was cut, as before, round without a train,and at her neck and waist were costly jewels. Her hair fell luxuriantlyover her shoulders, and on her head was a coronet of diamonds, with afew sprigs of rosemary. She walked modestly forward, between theEarls of Overstein and Essex, with a sad, demure expression, and onapproaching the spot where the king stood made three low obeisances. Shewas followed by her ladies.
The Archbishop of Canterbury and Cranmer performed the marriageceremony, the Earl of Overstein gave her away, and on her wedding-ringwas engraved this sentence "God send me weel to keepe."
On the 4th of February the king and queen went up the Thames in grandstate to their palace of Westminster. Henry kept up an outward show ofattention to his bride, but she knew not the art of pleasing, felt nosympathy with his tastes, and could not gain his affection.
She knew this, but could not help it. Several times she sent forCromwell, hoping with his advice to be more successful, but hepositively refused to talk privately with her. He had reasons of his ownfor doing so.
On the 1st of May a company of the gallant knights at court, all dressedin white velvet with rich ornaments, had a grand tournament in honor ofthe recent marriage, and this was the last time Henry and Anne of Clevesever appeared together in public.
Anne studied the English language industriously, and tried in everypossible manner to please her lord, but by {418}the end of five monthsshe was convinced that it was hopeless.
There was a low-born, unprincipled creature at court, named Sir ThomasWriothesley, who would have done or said anything to gain favor with hissovereign, and he kept constantly lamenting over Henry's position, andhow hard it was for him to be bound to a wife whom he could not love. Inthis way he prepared the way for a divorce, and Henry was only too readyto avail himself of any excuse. Now his sensitive conscience began totrouble him again. This time it was on the score of religion; he couldnot bear to think of having a Lutheran wife. No wonder poor Anne lostpatience, and in a moment of pique, told him that, "if she had not beencompelled to marry him she might have fulfilled her engagement withanother to whom she had promised her hand."
That was enough for him; she could scarcely have said anything thatwould have suited him better, and he at once set to work to make herposition as unpleasant as possible. His first move was to dismiss allher foreign attendants, and supply their places with English ladies ofhis own selection.
By this time he was in love with the young and beautiful KatharineHoward, niece to the Duke of Norfolk, and had decided to make her hiswife as soon as he could manage it. The leaders of the Catholic partyfavored this union, and hoped at the same time for the downfall of theirgreat enemy, Cromwell. They were soon to be gratified, for Henry nowrequired a tool, who would not be guided by the nice feelings of agentleman, for carrying out his plans. Cromwell was not such a one,and he must be put out of the way. In this reign of terror nothing waseasier, and in less than a month he was arrested and shut up in theTower.
A few days later Anne was sent to Richmond under pretence {419}that herhealth required change of air, and this was the prelude to the divorcefor which Henry had now grown impatient.
Archbishop Cranmer had performed the marriage ceremony, and it nowbecame his duty to divorce the king for the third time in less thanseven years. This was accomplished by unanimous consent of the clergyJuly 13. As the queen was a stranger to English laws and customs, shewas spared the humiliation of appearing before the council.
When everything was settled, Suffolk, Southampton, and Wriothesleywere appointed to go to Richmond to get the queen's consent. She wasso alarmed when she saw them that before the true object of their visitcould be explained to her she fell fainting to the ground. No doubt thepoor woman thought she was on the point of having her head cut off.When she recovered consciousness, she was told that if she would resignher title as queen Henry would adopt her for a sister, and that sheshould be endowed with estates to the value of 3,000 a year. This wasan immense relief, and Anne expressed her willingness to resign herhonors with such alacrity that the lords were quite surprised.
When Henry heard this, and saw the paper she had signed to that effect,he could not believe that she was so ready to part with so supremelyprecious a person. Fearing that she might relent, he wrote to hiscouncil requesting them to have her write a letter to her brotherexplaining her position, and expressing her earnest desire for thedivorce.
Anne then wrote her mother and brother that she was honorably treated,and felt quite cheerful and contented. She hoped that no dispute wouldarise between her native land and England, where she purposed spendingher life, and begged them in no way to interfere, no doubt dreading thatif they did so it would be visited on her head.
In the meantime Anne passed her time very pleasantly at Richmond,dressed magnificently, and performed many deeds of charity; in short,she was happier than she had been since her departure from home.
Sixteen months later Katharine was thrown into prison, and then severalattempts were made by various parties to bring about the reunion ofHenry and Anne, but fortunately for her without success. From herretirement she heard
[[A.D. 1540.]] On the 28th of July, Cromwell was beheaded, and thepious, learned Doctor Barnes, who had been instrumental in bringingabout the marriage, was burned at the stake.
[Illustration: 0424]
In August Henry visited his divorced wife at Richmond, and was so wellreceived by her that he stayed to supper and seemed in excellent humor.Two days later he publicly introduced Katharine Howard at court as hisqueen. {421}of the misery the king endured when he became convincedof how his new wife had deceived him, and she must have been more thanhuman if she did not feel somewhat gratified when the royal Bluebeardwas compelled to part from her.
Katharine Howard enjoyed sixteen months of boundless influence over herhusband, but her lucky star was soon to wane, and without being allowedto open her lips in her own defence save to her confessor, she walkedlike a sheep to the slaughter. Her execution took place February 13.
[[A.D. 1577.]] Anne of Cleves outlived Henry VIII. and his last wife,and died during the reign of Queen Mary at the Palace of Chelsea, agedforty-one.
[Illustration: 0425]
{422}



CHAPTER XXVI. KATHARINE HOWARD, FIFTH QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1521-1542.)
|There is not a family in England whose name has appeared so often inits history, whether for good or for bad, as that of the Howards, norone whose members filled such varied and important positions, as everyattentive reader will admit.
Katharine Howard was nearly related to Anne Boleyn; she became the fifthwife of Henry VIII., and is by no means one of the nobler specimens ofthe family to which she belonged.
She was born in 1521, and had the misfortune to lose her mother whileshe was still young. Her father's duties called him from home a greaterpart of the time, and the Duchess of Norfolk, her grandmother, who hadcharge of Katharine, was so neglectful of her duty as to permit thechild to choose her own companions, and they were unfortunately low anddegraded.
Unlike most grandmothers, the duchess merely tolerated Katharine in herhousehold, and felt that she had performed her part when the little maidwas locked in her room, and the key safely deposited in her own pocket.But, like many naughty girls, Katharine managed, in spite of locks, tomeet Francis Derham, one of the Duke of Norfolk's retainers, to whom shesecretly engaged herself. In order to be nearer his lady-love, Derhamentered the service of her grandmother as gentleman-usher. After a{423}time the old lady began to observe certain signs of intimacybetween this pair of lovers, and on entering a room one day unexpectedlyshe found them romping together. Shocked at the familiarity of her ushertowards her granddaughter, she boxed the ears of the lady-attendantfor permitting it, punished Katharine, and dismissed Derham from herservice.
[Illustration: 0427]
After that Katharine was kept under greater restraint, and as she grewinto womanhood learned to behave properly, and became remarkable for hercharming and graceful manners.
She met Henry VIII. the first time at a banquet given by the Bishop ofWinchester to celebrate the monarch's marriage with Anne of Cleves, andafterwards at the house of Gardiner. The king took such a fancy to herthat it was not long before he secured her appointment as maid-of-honorto the queen. It has been supposed that Katharine was instrumental inbringing about the death of {424}Cromwell, but, as she only intriguedfor the king's favors, it is not probable that she troubled her headabout politics.
Henry VIII. fell in love with her as he had done with Anne Boleyn andJane Seymour, when they were maids-of-honor, and little Katharine wassilly enough to be flattered by the marks of favor he showed her. TheDuchess of Norfolk, instead of warning the girl of her danger, wasfoolish enough to encourage her to court the king's attention, andprovided her with fine clothes to make her as attractive as possible tohis majesty.
Henry was easily won, and privately married Katharine a few days afterhe was divorced from Anne of Cleves.
[[A.D. 1540.]] On the 8th of August, 1540, the new bride was introducedat Hampton Court as Queen of England. A short honeymoon was passed atWindsor, and then the royal couple made a tour through several counties,but the king had exhausted his treasury when he married his Flemishbride, so he could not honor Katharine Howard with either a coronationor a marriage festival. But he was very much in love, and lavishedaffection on her.
Six months of peace and happiness were enjoyed by the royal couple,Henry seldom leaving the side of his young wife, nor permitting any ofhis councillors to interrupt his pleasures. Katharine felt her power andforgot what had been the fate of her predecessors. She was soon tobe reminded, however, for the realm had become divided into twoparties--the Catholic and Protestant, and both were strong. TheReformers fondly hoped that Anne of Cleves might be restored to herformer position, and regarded Katharine in the same unfavorable light asAnne Boleyn had been looked upon by the Catholics.
At last, in the spring, came a crisis in the shape of an insurrection bythe Catholics in Yorkshire, headed by Sir {425}
[Illustration: 0429] {427}John Neville. Henry thought Cardinal Pole wasthe cause of it, and so took his revenge by ordering the execution ofthe Countess of Salisbury, Pole's mother, who had been in the Tower formore than a year: When the aged lady heard of it she refused to lay herhead upon the block, saying, "So should traitors do, but I am none,and if you will have my head you must win it as you can." Thereupon thebrutal ruffian who acted as executioner dragged her by her hoary locks,and "slovenly butchered the woman in whose veins flowed the noblestblood of England."
For the purpose of ascertaining the exact state of affairs in Yorkshire,King Henry set out with his wife for that place early in July, 1541,leaving Cranmer, Audley, and Seymour, three Protestant adherents, amonghis councillors at home. At Yorkshire the royal couple were met by twohundred gentlemen in velvet coats, with four thousand yeomen, who kneltwhile one of their number offered nine hundred pounds. At another placethree hundred ecclesiastics presented six hundred pounds, and so onuntil Henry found himself much richer than when he started on hisjourney. Queen Katharine saw more of the pomp of royalty at thistime than she had done during the whole year before, for the wealthyaristocracy in every part of the country vied with each other in thegrandeur of their entertainments given in honor of the royal couple.
Katharine had been married little more than a year when Francis Derhamreturned to England, and she committed the error of appointing him asher private secretary. As soon as the king heard of the relation thathad existed between this man and his wife previous to her marriage hisjealousy was aroused, and the Protestant statesmen took good care toencourage every suspicion that entered their monarch's head. Meanwhilepoor little Katharine was {428}entirely unconscious of the storm thatwas gathering about her.
King Henry was soon forced to order her removal from Hampton Court.Wriothesley and Rich were the unprincipled, cruel agents who, determinedupon the destruction of the queen, persecuted her until she was besideherself with terror and grief. Then, too, she loved her husband, andwhen she was compelled to leave him without one word of farewell, onelook of compassion, her heart was almost broken. The king suffered also,but his council took little heed of that; it would be dangerous for themwere Katharine to regain her power.
Shakespeare truly says:
                        "Trifles, light as air,
               Are to the jealous confirmations strong
               As proofs of holy writ."
Katharine was removed to Sion House, and thence a few days later to thegloomy dungeon of the Tower.
During the short season of terror that succeeded the queen's arrest,Derham, the poor old Duchess of Norfolk, Culpepper, Katharine's cousin,and several other persons who were guilty of no crime but that ofsuspecting the attachment that had existed before her marriage betweenKatharine and Derham, were executed.
On the 16th of January, 1542, parliament met to decide the fate of thequeen, and without granting her the privilege of uttering one word inher own defence she was condemned to die. The 14th of the followingmonth was fixed upon for the execution of this beautiful young girl,against whom no crime could be proved even through the instrumentalityof the torture.
[[A.D. 1542.]] She met her death calmly and meekly, professing to thelast her loyalty to the king. Her burial {429}took place immediatelywithout even the ceremonies that would have been accorded to the meanestof her subjects; she was interred in St. Peter's chapel of the Tower.When speaking of Henry VIII., Sir Walter Raleigh says: "If all thepatterns of a merciless tyrant had been lost to the world they mighthave been found in this prince."
[Illustration: 0433]
{430}



CHAPTER XXVII. KATHARINE PARR, SIXTH QUEEN OF HENRY VIII.
(A.D. 1513-1548.)
|Katharine Parr was the first Protestant Queen of England, and theonly one of the wives of Henry VIII. who supported the doctrine of theReformation with sincerity. She was an Englishwoman, but not of royalbirth, being the only daughter of Sir Thomas Parr, a knight. She wasgifted by nature with a fine mind, which was carefully cultivated byher excellent mother, as some of her writings that still exist certainlyprove. She read and wrote Latin well, and had some knowledge of Greek.
When a little girl she never could bear to sew, and often said toher mother, "my hands are ordained to touch crowns and sceptres, notspindles and needles." But Lady Parr was too wise to allow such notionsto take a strong hold of her daughter's mind, and insisted on herperforming those duties that befitted her station in life; consequentlyher embroidery, of which specimens have been preserved, shows unusualskill and industry. At Lizergh Castle a magnificent counterpane andtoilet-cover are exhibited as the work of her hands, and although threecenturies have passed since it was done, the colors are scarcely dimmedat all. The material is the richest white satin. In the centre is amedallion of a raised eagle beneath the royal crown, surrounded by awreath of flowers in colored silks and gold thread. At each corner is alarge dragon in purple, crimson, and gold, while bouquets of
{431}
[Illustration: 0435]
{433}flowers in gorgeous colors are dispersed here and there over theother part. The pieces match, but are of different proportions.
Katharine was married twice before she became the wife of Henry VIII.Her first husband was Lord Edward Borough, a middle-aged widowerwith several children, who died a short time after the marriage. JohnNeville, Lord Latimer, was her second choice; he was also a widower withchildren, and Katharine's amiable temper and sound sense so well fittedher to perform the duties a stepmother that she was loved and esteemedby the families of both her husbands.
She was not more than twenty-nine years old when she was left a widowfor the second time. It was then that she became a convert to theReformed religion, and encouraged its apostles to meet daily in herchamber of state to preach their sermons.
She was not only pious, learned and handsome, but she possessed greatwealth, and was connected by descent or marriage with some of thenoblest families in England.
Scarcely six months had elapsed after the death of Lord Latimer when shewas informed by Henry VIII. that she was the lady whom he intendedto honor by making her his sixth wife. She was amazed, and no doubtterrified, when she recalled the cruel treatment of her royal suitor'sother victims'. Besides Lord Seymour was courting her, and she hadfavored his attentions. But that gentleman valued his head so muchthat no sooner did he hear of his all-powerful royal brother-in-law'sintention than he vanished from the scene, leaving Katharine to transferher affection as best she might.
[[A.D. 1543.]] She exchanged her widow's weeds for bridal robes, andwas married at Hampton Court without pageantry, but with all suitableobservance of ceremony. {434}We are reminded of the fair Scheherazadein the Arabian Nights, who married the sultan, knowing that it washis custom to take a fresh wife every day and cut off her head in themorning.
But the cross, selfish old tyrant whom Katharine Parr had the courage tomarry was in such bad health that he needed a skilful nurse; perhaps forthat reason she felt confident that her position would be secure. On theday of her marriage she gave presents of bracelets set with rubies, aswell as a liberal sum of money, to the Princesses Mary and Elizabeth.
The University of Cambridge sent the king a congratulatory letter onhis choice of a Protestant wife, and the celebrated Roger Aschamcorresponded with her in the name of that college, requesting her towrite oftener, and not to shrink from being called learned. The dignityof the scholar and the queen are beautifully blended with the tendernessof the woman in the character of Katharine Parr after she ascended thethrone.
She became an object of jealous ill-will to Gardiner, the leader of theCatholic party, who feared her influence over the king. Scarcely twoweeks after the marriage he advised Henry to appoint a commission tosearch every house in Windsor for books written in favor of the newreligion. Henry consented, but made an exception of the castle, no doubthaving reason to know that more of such works would be found hidden awayin his own household than in all the town put together.
The result was that many men and women were arrested, tried, andcondemned to death, and although the flames of their martyrdom werekindled almost in sight of the Protestant queen, she was unable tosave the victims. She knew well enough that the murder of thesehumble Reformers was a blow aimed at herself, and that Gardiner was{435}playing a bold game against all those professing her religion.
One of the first acts of justice that Katharine performed aftershe became queen was to restore the king's two daughters, Mary andElizabeth, to their proper position at court, after which she wasconstantly making them presents, and showing them many deeds oftenderness and motherly care. She and Mary were opposed to each otherin religious belief, but they were about the same age, had the sameaccomplishments and tastes, and soon became warm and steadfast friends.Elizabeth's brilliant talents were drawn forth and encouraged by hergifted stepmother, who also directed the studies of Edward.
In one of his letters to her he says: "I thank you, most noble andexcellent queen, for the letters you have lately sent me; not only fortheir beauty, but for their imagination. When I see your good writingand the excellence of your genius, quite surpassing my invention, Iam sick of writing. But then I think how kind your nature is, and thatwhatever proceeds from a good, kind intention will be acceptable; and soI write you this letter."
Her celebrated work, "The Lamentations of a Sinner," is one of thefinest specimens of English composition of that period. It is a treatiseon morality and the imperfections of human nature.
Henry would have been miserable with a woman of such superior intellectif she had not constantly flattered him and studied his various moods.But so great was the influence she acquired over him, and the confidencehe felt in her wisdom, that when he went on an expedition against Francehe appointed her to govern his realm as Queen Regent of England andIreland, assisted by the Earl of Hertford.
During his absence he wrote very loving letters to his {436}wife, who,together with her royal step-children, resided in one house.
[[A.D. 1544.]] She showed a great deal of moral courage, but by herbeauty, tact, and domestic virtues she had made herself so necessary toher fat, dropsical husband that she was dearer to him than any of herpredecessors had been.
Henry had become so unwieldy from disease that he could not move withoutassistance, and his wife showed herself the most patient and tender ofnurses. Sometimes she would remain on her knees for hours bathing andbandaging his ulcerated leg, for he would not permit anybody to touch itbut her.
[[A.D. 1546.]] The last occasion of festivity at the court of HenryVIII. was when ambassadors arrived to arrange terms of peace betweenFrance and England. They were met by a numerous cavalcade of nobles,knights and gentlemen, headed by the young heir to the throne, PrinceEdward, who, though only in his ninth year, was mounted on a charger,and welcomed them in the most graceful and engaging manner. He conductedthem to Hampton Court, where for ten day's they were feasted andentertained with great magnificence by the king and queen.
Henry presented Katharine with jewels of great value, that she mightmake a good appearance before their French guests, he also providednew and costly hangings and furniture for her apartments as well as aquantity of handsome silver.
Wriothesley and Bishop Gardiner were alarmed at Katharine'sever-increasing influence, not only over her husband, but over the mindof young Edward as well, and watched her closely, in the hope that theymight be able to make some charge against her. Nothing offered itselfexcepting her religious opinions, which were opposed to Henry's.
{437}
[Illustration: 0441]
{439}Several persons were burned to death about thistime for professing the reformed doctrine, among whom was the young,beautiful and learned Anne Askew. She was a lady of honorable birth,who became a convert to the new faith, and was for that reason violentlydriven from her home by her cruel husband. Resuming her maiden name,she worked hard for her religion, and was aided by the first ladies atcourt. When it was discovered that she had sent books to the queen, shewas singled out as a victim by those who hoped by means of torture towring some confession from her by which Katharine might be charged withheresy or treason. But they were mistaken, for the heroic Anne Askewdied at the stake like a true martyr, "with an angelic expression onher smiling countenance." Sir George Blagge was arrested also, but hehappened to be one of the king's prime favorites, and was sometimescalled by the endearing nickname of "pig." As soon as Henry heard ofthis arrest he sent for Wriothesley and rated him well, commanding himto draw up a pardon on the spot. On his release Blagge flew to thank hispreserver, who on seeing him cried out, "Ah! my pig, are you here safeagain!"
"Yes, sire," was the reply, "and if your majesty had not been betterthan your bishops your pig had been roasted ere this time."
The next attack was on the queen herself, whom Wriothesley and Gardinerhad resolved to strike with a fatal blow. They told the king that hersister, Lady Herbert, not only read the books that he had prohibited,but also gave them to Katharine to read. Now it happened that theroyal couple often conversed on theological subjects in their hours ofdomestic privacy, and Henry enjoyed his wife's ready wit and eloquence.She courted these subjects, because, knowing that he was suffering froman incurable malady, she felt it her duty to turn his mind heavenward.{440}One day in the presence of Gardiner she went a little too far inopposing her lord's views, and as he was suffering with his leg he feltrather more irritable than usual. He therefore snappishly put a stop tothe discussion; after making a few pleasant remarks Katharine left theroom. "A good hearing it is," said Henry sharply, "when women becomesuch clerks; and much to my comfort to come, in mine old age, to betaught by my wife!" Gardiner took advantage of the king's wounded vanityto insinuate things against his wife that he would not have dared to saya few days before. He flattered him on his knowledge of theology, anddeclared that his majesty excelled the princes of that age and everyother, as well as all the professed doctors of divinity, so much thatit was absurd for anybody to think of arguing with him as the queen hadjust done. He added that it was painful for any of his counsellors tohear it, because those who were so bold in words would not hesitate tocommit any act of disobedience. In fact he so poisoned the king's mindas to gain from him a warrant to consult with others of his party aboutdrawing up articles against the queen that might bring her head to theblock. But they decided to begin with the ladies of the court whom sheesteemed most, and to search their trunks and closets for something tocharge Katharine with, and after they had found it to arrest her in themiddle of the night and take her in a barge to the Tower.
All this time the queen suspected nothing, but continued her nursing ofher husband and her religious discussions with him as before. One day anattendant of Katharine's picked up a paper in the gallery of Whitehallthat Wriothesley had dropped. It contained a list of charges againstthe queen with an order for her arrest, and bore Henry's signature.The terrified woman had an attack of hysterics as soon as she becameacquainted with the contents of the {441}paper; as her apartment wasnext to the king's he heard her shrieks and cries, and sent to inquirewhat was the matter. Her doctor informed the messenger that the queenwas seriously ill, and that the cause seemed to be distress of mind. Nodoubt Henry realized how much he should miss her gentle nursing if sheshould die, so he determined to pay her a visit. Accordingly he waswheeled into her room in a chair, and was really alarmed when he saw howill she looked. After a few minutes she assured him that his visit hadgreatly revived her, and at the same time expressed her regret athaving seen so little of him for a few days, and her fears that she hadunintentionally given him some cause for offence. Henry replied kindlyand affectionately. Then she was so humble and loving in her manner thata reaction took place in the humor of her imperious lord, and he toldthe physician of the plot against the patient's life.
The next evening Katharine felt well enough to return the king's visit.She entered his room, attended by her sister, Lady Herbert, and theking's young niece, Lady Jane Grey, who carried the candles before hermajesty. Henry welcomed her courteously, but in course of time tried todraw her into a religious argument as usual. She avoided the snare byobserving, "that she was but a woman, with all the imperfections naturalto the weakness of her sex, therefore in all matters of doubt anddifficulty she must refer herself to his majesty's better judgment;for," she continued, "God hath appointed you supreme head of us all, andof you, next unto God, will I ever learn."
"Not so, by St. Mary!" cried the king, "ye are become a doctor, Kate, toinstruct us, and not to be instructed of us, as oftentime we have seen."
"Indeed," replied she, "if your majesty have so conceived {442}mymeaning has been mistaken, for I have always held it preposterous for awoman to instruct her lord; and if I have ever presumed to differ withyour highness on religion it was partly to gain information for my owncomfort regarding certain nice points on which I stood in doubt, andsometimes because I perceived that in talking you were better ableto pass away the pain and weariness of your present infirmity, whichencouraged me to this boldness, in the hope of profiting by yourmajesty's learned discourse."
There was no limit to the flattery that this egotist could stand. Witha complacent smile he replied, "And is it so, sweetheart? Then we areperfect friends." He then kissed her, and gave her leave to depart.
On the day appointed for her arrest the king felt better, and sent forher to take the air with him in the garden. She came attended by threeladies. Presently Wriothesley with forty armed men entered the gardenwith the intention of carrying the queen off to the Tower. But hehad not been informed of the change in the king's mind. To his greatsurprise Henry received him with a burst of indignation, calling himbeast, fool, and knave, and bidding him get out of his sight. Katharinetried to calm him, and begged forgiveness for her foe.
"Ah! poor soul," said the king, "thou little knowest, Kate, how evil hedeserveth this grace at thy hands. On my word, sweetheart, he hath beento thee a very knave!"
Now if Katharine had not been a woman of forbearance and real virtue shewould immediately have turned on her enemies when she had the king inher power, but instead of that she induced him to overlook Wriothesley'soffence, but he never forgave Gardiner the blunder he had made, and notonly struck his name from his council-book but forbade him his presence.Henry is said to have been very kind {443}and affectionate to Katharineduring his latter days, yet it was well-known that he was preparinganother charge of heresy against her when death overtook him, and thatshe survived him only by special good luck.
[[A.D. 1547.]] Henry VIII. expired January 28, 1547, at the royal palaceof Westminster, in the fifty-sixth year of his age.
When his will was opened Katharine was surprised and indignant to findthat she was not appointed regent of the realm, with the care of theyoung King Edward VI., as she deserved to be.
The king's body lay in state for several days, and was then buried withgreat pomp in St. George's Chapel, Windsor Castle.
A few months after his death Katharine returned to her former lover, SirThomas Seymour, to whom she was married in the month of May, 1547. Herroyal stepchildren were much pleased at this match, and continued theiraffection for Katharine throughout her life.